MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

1

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION 65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATIONS 

27th September, 1994

LEGAL NOTICE 128 of 1994, as amended by Legal Notices: 92, 98 109,
149 of 1995, 1 and 234 of 1997, 125 and 268 of 1998, and 68, 85 and 174
of 1999 and 206 of 2000, 91 of 2001, 58, 191, 236, 322 and 335 of 2002,
93, 146, 162 and 407 of 2003, 104, 156, 386, 400 and 476 of 2004, 44 of
2006, 3, 408 and 414 of 2007, and 158 of 2009; Act XV of 2009; and Legal
Notices 24 of 2010, 101 and 252 of 2011,48 of 2012, 123 of 2018, 174 of
2018, 344 of 2018 and 48 and 139 of 2019, 263 of 2022 and 110 of 2023
and 113 of 2024.

PART I

Preliminary

1.

The  title  of  these  regulations  is  the  Motor  Vehicles

Title.

Regulations.

2.

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires - 

" A u t h o r i t y "   m e a n s   t h e   A u t h o r i t y   f o r   Tr a n s p o r t   i n   M a l t a
established by the Authority for Transport in Malta Act, and the
expression "Authority" shall, unless the context otherwise requires,
have the same meaning;

"Blue Badge" means the parking card for persons with disability
issued  in  terms  of  the  Parking  Concessions  for  Persons  with
Disability Act;

Interpretation.
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999;
L.N. 93 of 2003;
L.N. 156 of 2004;
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 414 of 2007;
L.N. 158 of 2009;
XV. 2009.49;
L.N. 252 of 2011;
L.N. 48 of 2012;
L.N. 123 of 2018;
L.N. 174 of 2018;
L.N. 263 of 2022;
L.N. 110 of 2023.
Cap. 499.

Cap. 560.

"Blue Badge holder" means any person with disability to whom a
Blue Badge has been issued under the Parking Concessions for
Persons with Disability Act;

Cap. 560.

"build-out" means a narrowing of the carriageway constructed on

either side of the road as an extension of the verge or footway;

"carriageway" means that part of a roadway on which traffic

proceeds in a single direction;

"cattle" includes sheep and goats;

"designated parking space for disabled persons" means a parking
space reserved by the Authority for disabled persons in terms of these
regulations;

"designated parking space for electric vehicles" means a parking
space reserved by the Authority for electric vehicles in accordance
with these regulations;

"Directive 2003/97/EC" means Directive 2003/97/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 10 November 2003 on
the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the

2

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

type-approval  of  devices  for  indirect  vision  and  of  vehicles
equipped with these devices, amending Directive 70/156/EEC and
repealing Directive 71/127/EEC;

"electric kick scooter'' or ''e-kickscooter'' means a stand-up device
that has a handlebar, a deck and small hard wheels powered by an
electric motor and which also allows for human propulsion;

"goods vehicle" means any motor vehicle which is licensed and/
or registered solely for the carriage of goods and which is not
permitted to carry any person, except the driver and the person or
persons in charge of the goods;

"heavy goods vehicle" means an articulated goods vehicle, or a
large goods vehicle, that is to say, a motor vehicle (not being an
articulated goods vehicle) which is constructed or adapted to carry
or to haul goods and the permissible maximum weight of which
exceeds 7.5 tonnes;

"horse" includes mules and other beasts of burden.

"invalid carriage" means any motor vehicle which is specially
designed and constructed, or efficiently adapted, for the use of a
person suffering from some physical defect or disability and is used
solely by such person;

"M1 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of
passengers and comprising no more than eight seats in addition to
the driver’s seat;

"M2 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of
passengers, comprising more than eight seats in addition to the
driver’s seat, and having a maximum mass not exceeding 5 tonnes;

"M3 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of
passengers, comprising more than eight seats in addition to the
driver’s seat, and having a maximum mass exceeding 5 tonnes;

"mobile telephone" means any portable device which is used

directly by a person for the purpose of wireless communication;

"motor cycle" means any two-wheeled vehicle, with or without a
sidecar, fitted with an engine having a cylinder capacity of more than
50cm3 if of the internal combustion type and, or having a maximum
design speed of more than 45 km/h, and including a motor tricycle;

"motor cycle for hire" means a motor cycle which is licensed
and/or registered to be hired from a public service garage for the
purpose of being driven by the hirer;

"motor hearse" means any motor vehicle used for the conveyance

of corpses;

"motor route bus" means an M2 or M3 motor vehicle which, by
virtue of its type of construction and equipment, is suitable for carrying
passengers, and is intended for that purpose and which is licensed to
operate a public passenger transport service in terms of the Authority for
Transport in Malta Act or any regulation issued thereunder;

" m o t o r   t r a c t o r "   m e a n s   a n y   m o t o r   v e h i c l e   w h i c h   i s   n o t
constructed  to  carry  any  load,  but  is  intended  for  towing  or
agricultural purposes only:

Cap. 499.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

3

Provided  that  in  the  case  of  a  motor  vehicle  fitted  with  a
crane,  dynamo,  welding  plant  or  other  special  appliance  or
apparatus which is a permanent or an essentially permanent fixture,
the appliance or apparatus shall be deemed to form a part of the
vehicle;

" m o t o r   v e h i c l e "   m e a n s   a   v e h i c l e   w h i c h   i s   p r o p e l l e d   b y
mechanical power and includes a motor cycle, an e-kickscooter and, or
a moped;

"motor vehicle for hire" means an M1 motor vehicle registered to
be hired from a public service garage, and driven by the garage
owner or by any person employed by him;

"N1 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of

goods and having a maximum mass not exceeding 3.5 tonnes;

"N2 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of
goods and having a maximum mass exceeding 3.5 tonnes but not
exceeding 12 tonnes;

"N3 motor vehicles" means vehicles used for the carriage of

goods and having a maximum mass exceeding 12 tonnes;

"owner" means the person in whose name a motor vehicle is

licensed and/or registered;

"passenger transport vehicle" means an M2 or M3 motor vehicle
licensed  to  be  used  for  the  carriage  of  passengers  for  hire  or
reward;

"personalised designated parking space for disabled persons" means
a personalised parking space reserved by the Authority and in which
there is clearly and prominently marked or indicated the registration
number of the vehicle or the Blue Badge number of the disabled
person, as the case may be, that is solely authorised to make use of
such personalised parking space in terms of these regulations;

"priority vehicle lane" means an area of carriageway reserved for

vehicles on priority duty;

"private car" means a privately owned vehicle not licensed or

registered for hire;

"public passenger transport service" means the regular passenger
transport services of general economic interest provided to the
public on a non-discriminatory and continuous basis;

"public transport" means the conveyance in Malta by a motor
vehicle of passengers against compensation and includes the hire of
a self-drive vehicle; 

"public transport vehicle" means any motor vehicle used or

intended to be used for public transport;

"quad  bike"  means  a  four-wheeled  vehicle  with  handlebars

whose maximum design speed exceeds 45 km per hour;

"road" means any road, street, lane, square, or other place of

public thoroughfare;

"self  drive  motor  vehicle"  means  a  motor  vehicle  which  is
licensed and/or registered to be hired from a public service garage

4

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

for the propose of being driven by a hirer. It may, however, be
driven  by  the  garage  owner,  or  by  any  person  in  his  regular
e m p l o y m e n t   h o l d i n g   a   s p e c i a l   d r i v i n g   l i c e n c e ,   t o   c o n v e y
passengers for hire, provided that any passenger hiring it consents
to the use of such self drive motor vehicle in lieu of a motor vehicle
for hire;

"stop light" means a device fitted to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of intimating the intention of the driver of the vehicle to
stop or slow down;

"surveillance camera" means a camera fixed inside a passenger
transport vehicle or a motor route bus which shall be kept switched
on at all times while the vehicle is on duty and shall record and
transmit the images captured to a control room designated by the
Authority, which images shall, however, only be accessible to:

-

-

the  Police  in  the  event  that  they  receive  a  report  or
otherwise  become  aware  that  a  criminal  offence  has
been  committed  or  may  have  been  committed  in  the
particular vehicle; and

the  Authority  in  the  event  that  it  receives  a  report  or
otherwise  becomes  aware  that  an  infringement  of  the
Passenger  Transport  Services  Regulations  has  been
committed;

"tag" means an official means of identification issued by the
Authority granting the holder of the said tag the right to drive a
passenger transport vehicle for hire or reward;

"taxicar" means a motor vehicle fitted with a taximeter and

licensed and/or registered to ply for hire as a taxicar;

"trailer" means any wheeled vehicle without mechanical power
of its own, designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle for the purpose
of carrying persons or goods;

S.L.499.56

Cap. 490.

"Tribunal" means the Administrative Review Tribunal established

by article 5 of the Administrative Justice Act;

"two-way radio" means any wireless apparatus which is designed
or adapted for the purpose of transmitting and receiving spoken
messages.

PART II

Temporary Admission of Motor Vehicles into Malta and 
International Travelling

Conditions for 
temporary 
admission. 

International 
travelling 
requirements.

International 
driving permit.

Application 
requirements. 

3.

4.

5.

6.

Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

5

7.

8.

9.

Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

10. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

11. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

12. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

13. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

14. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

15. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

16. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

PART III

Licences and Registration of Motor Vehicles

17. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

18. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

19. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

20. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004. 

21. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

22. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

23. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

Plate requirements.

Examination of 
vehicle.

Examination of 
applicant.

Exemption from 
further test.

Driving by non-
resident persons.

Exception re 
temporary use of 
vehicle.
Amended by:
L.N. 191 of 2002.

Persons stationed 
in Malta.
Amended by:
L.N. 191 of 2002.

Exception re public 
transport vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 191 of 2002.

Production of 
certificates. 

Persons 
disqualified from 
driving.

Registration of 
motor vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 93 of 2003.

Licensing of motor 
vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 93 of 2003.

Renewal or 
transfer of licence.
Amended by:
L.N. 93 of 2003.

Licence fees.
Amended by:
L.N. 93 of 2003.
Cap. 128.
Cap. 332.

Particular licence 
for each vehicle.

Duplicate licence 
and certificate.

Validity of 
licences.
Amended by:
L.N. 191 of 2002.

6

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Production of 
licences.

Production of 
certificate of motor 
vehicle.
Amended by:
L.N. 104 of 2004.

Transfer of motor 
vehicles and 
licences.
Amended by:
L.N. 1 of 1997.

Cancellation of 
motor vehicle 
licence.

Position of licence 
on motor vehicles. 

Licence contents to 
be easily legible.

Vehicle to be used 
according to 
specific licence.

Identification 
numbers.

Particular 
identification 
numbers.

Plates bearing 
identification 
numbers.

Plates to be seen 
clearly on vehicle.

Plates to be 
decipherable.

Licence to use a 
"Trial Run" plate.

Licence to learn to 
drive a motor 
vehicle.

Motoring school to 
be licensed. 

Application for 
keeping of 
motoring school.

Discretion of 
Commissioner of 
Police.

Only authorised 
vehicles to be used.

Licensee to keep 
journal.

Instructor to have 
requisite licence.

Only instructor to 
sit with learner.

24. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

25. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

26. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

27. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

28. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

29. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

30. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

31. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

32. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

33. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

34. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

35. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

36. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

37. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

38. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

39. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

40. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

41. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

42. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

43. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

44. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

7

45. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

46. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

47. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

48. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

49. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

50. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

51. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

52. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

53. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

54. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

55. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

56. Deleted by L.N. 252 of 2011.

57. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

58. Deleted by L.N. 191 of 2002.

59. The  licensee  of  a  motor  vehicle  is  responsible  that  the
driver employed by him is in possession of the requisite licences.
The driver of a vehicle is responsible that the motor vehicle under
his charge is provided with the necessary licence for the service
which it is required to perform.

60. Deleted by L.N. 476 of 2004.

61.

(1) No  goods  carrying  vehicle  being  over  eight  metres
long shall enter Valletta without an authorisation in writing from
the Authority.

(2) No  passenger  carrying  vehicle  comprising  more  than
eighteen seats in addition to the driver’s seat shall enter that area in
Valletta designated as a charging zone under the Vehicle Access
Zones (Control) Regulations without an authorisation in writing
from the Authority.

Withdrawal or 
suspension of 
licence for keeping 
of school.

Withdrawal or 
suspension of 
licence to act as 
instructor. 

Requirement of 
learner licence.

Public transport 
vehicles.

Certificate of 
competency. 

Motor driving 
licences.
Amended by:
L.N. 149 of 1995;
L.N. 68 of 1999;
L.N. 174 of 1999.

Application on 
appropriate form.

Licence to specify 
class, bear 
photograph.

Renewal of 
licences.

Cancellation or 
suspension of 
driver’s licence. 

Immediate delivery 
of cancelled 
licence, etc.
Amended by:
L.N. 149 of 1995.

Delivery of 
identification tag.

Court conviction. 

Unlawful driving.

Responsibility for 
licence.
Amended by:
L.N. 252 of 2011.

Licence for motor 
vehicles for the 
conveyance of 
corpses.

Entry of heavy 
vehicles into 
Valletta.
Substituted by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

S.L. 65.31

8

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Licence to keep a 
garage.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 123 of 2018.

62.

(1) No person shall garage more than four motor vehicles
in any premises without a private garage licence, or a motor vehicle
licensed for hire without a public service garage licence.

(2) The  number  of  motor  vehicles  garaged  in  any  premises
shall  be  determined  by  the  number  of  such  vehicles  using  a
common exit or entrance to the road:

Provided that, for the purpose of determining the number of
such vehicles, two motor cycles shall be deemed equivalent to one
motor vehicle.

(3) The  licensee  of  a  private  garage  shall  keep  a  register
containing the registration number, and the name and the address of
the owner or owners of the vehicles garaged therein the number of
vehicles listed in the register may be varied from time to time upon a
request in writing to the Authority to this effect.

(4) A  public  service  garage  licence  shall  authorise  the  holder
thereof to garage therein motor vehicles licensed for hire, the
registration number of which shall appear on the public service
garage licence itself:

Provided that, subject to the requirements of sub-regulation
(3) of this regulation, a public service garage licence shall be
deemed to include a private garage licence.

(5) A public service garage licence shall authorise the licensee
to  hire  from  such  garage  only  motor  vehicles  registered  and
licensed  in  his  name  for  hire  a s  may  be  g ara ged  therein  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (4)  of  this
regulation.

(6) No  person  shall  have  registered  and  licensed  in  his  name
any motor vehicle for hire unless he is licensed to keep a public
service garage.

(7) No  person  holding  a  public  service  garage  licence,  and  no
member of his family residing with him in the same house, shall
have registered in his name more than two private cars.

(8) The licensee of a public service garage shall keep a register

containing the following information:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  date  and  the  time  of  departure  and  arrival  of  each
motor vehicle hired therefrom;

the  name,  licence  number  and  identification  tag
number of the driver; and

the  name,  address  and  licence  number  of  any  person
hiring a motor vehicle to be driven by the hirer.

(9) No person may hire a motor vehicle licensed for hire except

from a public service garage.

(10) Licences to keep a private garage or a public service garage
shall be issued by the Commissioner of Police and the Authority
respectively, provided that a public service garage licence shall
cease to be valid when the holder thereof holds no licences in his
name in respect of motor vehicles licensed for hire and authorised
to be garaged therein.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

9

(11) The Authority shall at the request of the holder of a public
service garage licence, grant him a special licence authorising him
to utilize additional premises, which are suitable for the storage of
motor vehicles, for the sole purpose of garaging motor vehicles for
hire registered in the holder’s name:

Provided  that  it  shall  be  a  condition  in  the  said  special
licence that no hire services whatsoever are to be offered from, and
no offices installed in, the additional premises so licensed.

(12) For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  "motor  vehicles
licensed for hire" means motor cars for hire, self-drive cars, low-
powered vehicles for hire and motor cycles for hire, but does not
include taxi-cars or motor route buses.

62A. (1)

An applicant for a public service garage licence
shall, before being granted the licence, satisfy the Authority that he is
of good repute and conduct. 

(2)

Every  applicant  for  a  public  service  garage  licence  not

being a natural person must indicate a designated person.

(3)

(a)where  the  applicant  for  a  public  service  garage
licence is a limited liability company, the requirements
of  sub-regulation  (1)  must  be  satisfied  by  all  the
directors of the company and the designated person; 

(b) where the applicant for a public service garage licence
is a partnership en commandite or a partnership en nom
the
collectif  as  defined 
requirements of sub-regulation (1) must be satisfied by
all the partners and the designated person; 

the  Companies  Act, 

in 

(c) where the applicant for a public service garage licence
is  a  legal  person  other  than  those  identified  in
paragraphs  (a)  and  (b),  the  requirements  of  sub-
regulation  (1)  must  be  satisfied  by  all  persons  having
the  legal  and,  or  judicial  representation  of  such  legal
person and the designated person.

(4) Where a  designated person, ceases to  continuously and
effectively manage the public service garage, the holder of the public
service  garage  licence  shall  within  twenty-one  days  from  that
occurrence  notify  the  Authority  in  writing  and  the  Authority  shall
allow  a  period  not  exceeding  three  months  within  which  the  public
service  garage  licence  holder  shall  either  transfer  the  licence  or
designate  another  designated  person,  who  shall  comply  with  the
provisions of sub-regulation (1). 

(1)

62B.

An  application  for  the  grant  of  a  public  service
garage licence shall be made to the Authority and shall be in the form
and contain such particulars as the Authority may require and shall be
submitted together with a certificate issued by the Police detailing any
criminal offences and, or contraventions for which the applicant and,
or the persons mentioned in regulation 62A may have been sentenced

Applicant for a 
public service 
garage licence to 
be of good repute 
and conduct.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

Cap. 386.

Application for a 
public service 
garage licence.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

10

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

together with the punishment thereof:

Provided  that  where  the  applicant  and/or  the  persons
mentioned  in  regulation  62A  are  not  normally  resident  in  Malta  an
extract  from  their  judicial  record  or,  failing  that,  an  equivalent
document issued by a competent judicial or administrative authority
of the country of origin or the country from which such persons come
shall suffice:

Provided further that where the country of origin or the
country  from  where  such  persons  come  does  not  issue  such
document,  the  said  document  may  be  replaced  by  a  declaration  on
oath  or  by  a  solemn  declaration  made  by  the  person  concerned  in
front  of  a  competent  judicial  or  administrative  authority  or,  where
appropriate, a notary in that person’s country of origin or the country
from where such persons come. Such authority or notary shall issue a
certificate  attesting  the  authenticity  of  the  declaration  on  oath  or
solemn declaration. 

(2)

The document prescribed in sub-regulation (1) shall not

be accepted if produced later than three months after date of issue.

(3)

The  Authority  may  require  any  particulars  given  by  an
applicant in relation to an application mentioned in sub-regulation (1)
to  be  contained  in  a  statutory  declaration  or  in  a  sworn  affidavit  in
such manner as the Authority shall specify.

(4) An  application  for  the  grant  of  a  public  service  garage
licence  shall  be  accompanied  by  the  fee  stipulated  in  the  Third
Schedule.

62C. (1)

An  application  for  the  issue  of  a  public  service
garage licence shall be processed and decided upon by the Authority.

(2)

In  the  case  that  the  public  service  garage  licence  is
granted, the Authority shall provide the licence holder with a certified
true copy of the licence which is to be kept at all times at the operating
centre of the said public service garage. 

(3)

The decision of the Authority shall be sent by registered

post to the applicant at the address specified in the application.

(4) Where the Authority intends to refuse an application, it
shall  give  the  applicant  concerned  notice  in  writing  setting  out  the
reasons for its intention to do so. Every notice of refusal shall state
that  the  applicant  has  a  right  to  make  representations  in  writing,
within ten days, to the Authority giving reasons why the application
should  not  be  refused  and  the  Authority  shall  consider  any
representations  so  made  before  arriving  at  a  final  decision.  The
Authority  shall  notify  in  writing  its  final  decision  to  the  applicant
concerned.

Decision on the 
granting of a 
licence.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

11

(5) When  an  application  is  refused  by  the  Authority,  the
applicant may appeal to the Tribunal against such decision within a
period of thirty days from its notification.

62D. (1)

A  person  shall  not  be  deemed  to  satisfy  the

condition of good repute and conduct:

(a)

if  he  has  been  found  guilty  of  committing  any  crime
contemplated in -:

(i)

Title  I  of  Part  II  of  Book  First  of  the
Criminal  Code  or  articles  198,  199,  203,  203A,  204,
204A, 204B, 204C, 205, 211, 212, 217 (in the event that
the arms proper used for the commission of the offence is
a  fire-arm),  220,  238(a),  248B,  248C,  248D  of  the
Criminal Code;

(ii)

articles 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the White

Slave Traffic (Suppression) Ordinance;

(iii) 

articles  40A,  40B,  120A  and  120B  of  the

Medical and Kindred Professions Ordinance.

(iv)

articles  4,  5,  6(a),  7,  8(b)(c),  15,  15A,  16,

18 and 22 of the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance; and 

(v)

articles 37, 38, 44, 50 and 61 of the Malta

Armed Forces Act; 

(b)

(c)

for  such  period  of  time  during  which  he  is  serving  a
sentence of imprisonment of at least one month;

for  such  period  of  time  immediately  following  time
spent serving a sentence of imprisonment for a term or
terms of at least one month imposed on such person for
a  crime  or  crimes  connected  with  violence  committed
on a person, which period shall be:

Good repute and 
conduct.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018;
Amended by:
L.N. 139 of 2019.

Cap. 9.

Cap. 9.

Cap. 63.

Cap. 31.

Cap. 101.

Cap. 220.

(i)

of 

sentences  of
imprisonment  for  a  term  of  at  least  six  months  and  not
more than two years;

three  months 

for 

(ii)

equal 

to  one-fourth  of 

term  of
imprisonment  for  which  such  person  was  sentenced  for
sentences  for  terms  of  imprisonment  of  more  than  two
years;

the 

(d)

if  he  has  been  found  guilty  of  committing  any
corresponding  offence  under  any  law  of  a  country  or  territory
outside Malta:

Provided  that  where  the  applicant  was  less  than
eighteen  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  the  commission  of  the
offence  the  period  referred  to  in  paragraph  (c)  shall  not  be

12

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

longer than two years.

(2)

For  the  purposes  of  determining  whether  a  person  is  of
good  repute  and  conduct  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  term
"sentence" shall not include:

Cap. 446.

Cap. 446.

(a) a  probation  order  issued  in  terms  of  article  7  of  the
Probation  Act  or  the  corresponding  articles  of  the
Probation  of  Offenders  Act  (repealed)  and  which  has
been  complied  with  by  the  probationer  or  an  absolute
or conditional discharge issued under article 22 of the
Probation  Act  or  the  corresponding  articles  of  the
Probation of Offenders Act (repealed) which has been
complied with; or

(b) a sentence for the commission of an offence for which
the  offender  has  been  pardoned  by  the  President  of
Malta  in  terms  of  article  93(1)  of  the  Constitution  of
Malta;  provided  that  this  paragraph  shall  only  apply
from  the  date  on  which  the  President  of  Malta  has
granted such pardon; or

(c)

a sentence which is at the moment of application under
appeal.

(d)  sentence for the commission of an offence which -

(i)  was committed before the 13th April 2018;
(ii)  was  committed  by  a  person  who  had  a  valid
driver’s  tag  issued  to  him  by  the  Authority
before the 13th April 2018; and

(iii)  was delivered at least five years before the date
of application for the renewal of the driver’s tag
and of the driver’s permit;

(e)  sentence for the commission of an offence of possession
for  exclusive  personal  use  mentioned  in  sub-paragraphs
(iii)  and  (iv)  of  sub-regulation  (1)(a)  above,  which
sentence was delivered at least three years before the date
of new application or renewal of tag, where the applicant
has  rehabilitated  oneself  by  means  of  a  rehabilitation
program  and  applicant  shall  have  no  other  sentence  in
these three years.

(3)

The holder of a public service garage licence shall inform
the Authority in writing of any conviction against him or of any person
mentioned in regulation 62A of any offence contemplated in paragraph
(a) of sub-regulation 1 within twenty-one days from that conviction or,
when an appeal is entered, within twenty days from when such appeal
is decided.

(4)

A  person  who  contravenes  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  be

guilty of an offence.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

13

(1)

62E.

A  public  service  garage  licence  shall  be  revoked
where  the  holder  no  longer  satisfies  the  conditions  laid  down  in
regulation 62A(1):

Suspension or 
revocation of a 
licence.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

Provided that where the licence holder is not considered
to  be  of  good  repute  and  conduct  solely  because  any  of  the  persons
listed  in  regulation  62A(3)  do  not  comply  with  the  provisions  of
regulation  62A(1),  the  public  service  garage  licence  shall  be
suspended until the licence holder substitutes such person with another
person who fulfils the requirements of these regulations:

Provided  further  that  where  the  licence  holder  fails  to
fulfil  the  above  mentioned  requirement  within  a  period  of  three
months from the date of the sentence or sentences in terms of which
the person is not considered to be compliant with the requirements of
regulation 62A(1), the licence shall be withdrawn ipso jure. 

(2)

A  suspension  or  revocation  in  terms  of  this  regulation
shall be effected by the Authority of its own motion or by order of a
court of criminal jurisdiction:

Provided that where the Authority intends to suspend or
revoke a public service garage licence of its own motion, it shall give
the licence holder concerned notice in writing setting out the reasons
for its intention to do so. Every notice given shall state that the licence
holder  concerned  may,  within  ten  days  from  service  thereof,  make
representations  in  writing  to  the  Authority  giving  reasons  why  the
public service garage licence should not be suspended or revoked and
the  Authority  shall  consider  any  representations  so  made  before
arriving  at  a  final  decision.  The  Authority  shall  notify  in  writing  its
final  decision  to  the  licence  holder  concerned.  The  licence  holder
concerned  shall  have  the  right  to  appeal  to  the  Tribunal  against  the
decision  of  the  Authority  to  suspend  or  revoke  the  public  service
garage licence within thirty days from notification of the Authority’s
decision:

Provided further that the suspension of the licence shall
have immediate effect not withstanding any appeal therefrom, unless
otherwise  ordered  by  the  Tribunal  or  by  a  court  of  criminal
jurisdiction:

Provided  further  that  a  decision  of  the  Authority  to
revoke a public service garage licence shall not become operative until
the expiration of the period within which an appeal may be made under
this  regulation  and,  if  an  appeal  is  made  within  such  period,  the
decision  shall  become  operative  on  the  date  of  the  decision  of  the
Tribunal  dismissing  the  appeal  or  the  date  on  which  the  appeal  is
abandoned.

14

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Death or physical 
or legal incapacity.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

62F. In the event of the death or physical or legal incapacity of the
natural person in whose name the public service garage licence is
granted, or of the designated person, the Authority may permit the
carrying on of the public service garage operation on a temporary basis
for a maximum period of nine months.

Workshop garage.

63. Deleted by Legal Notice 322 of 2002. 

Garage licence.

Cap. 10.

Car park 
attendants.
Substituted by:
L.N. 93 of 2003.
Amended by:
L.N. 408 of 2007;
XV. 2009.49.

64. All licences to keep premises wherein vehicles licensed for
hire are usually kept or a workshop garage shall be subject to the
provisions of article 130 of the Code of Police Laws.

65.

(1) No  person  shall  act  as  a  car  park  attendant  without  a

licence issued by the Authority for Transport in Malta.

(2) An application for a licence under this regulation shall be made
on the prescribed form. The completed form, accompanied by two
recent passport size photographs of the applicant, shall be deposited or
sent to the offices of the Authority for Transport in Malta.

(3) New licences will be issued by the Authority for Transport in
Malta in accordance with the priority order that the said Authority
received them.

(4) A licence issued under this regulation shall be -

(a) personal and non-transferable;

(b) applicable  only  for  the  times  and  the  scheduled  car

park that the car park attendant is licensed to attend;

(c) valid  up  to  the  31st  day  of  December  of  the  year
during  which  it  is  issued,  but  may  thereafter  be
renewed from year to year; and

(d)

subject  to  the  payment  of  eleven  euro  and  sixty-five
cents (11.65) payable upon the issue of the licence and
each year following the year in which the licence was
issued.

The  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  shall  also  provide
licensed car park attendants with a photocard tag indicating the
name, identity document number and the licence number, the car
park he is licensed to attend and the times during which he can act
as a car park attendant in that car park.

(5) No  licensee  shall  act  as  a  car  park  attendant  unless  the
licence fee payable every year or for any period as specified has
been paid.

(6) The Authority for Transport in Malta shall not issue to any
person a licence under this regulation unless it is satisfied that such
person is of good character and is fit to carry out his duties.

(7) A  car  park  attendant  shall,  while  on  duty,  wear  the
photocard tag issued by the Authority for Transport in Malta in a
conspicuous place and shall observe the dress code set out by the
said Authority.

(8) A car park attendant shall be  authorised to operate only in
the car park or parks indicated in his licence. He shall attend at
such car park or parks during the times indicated in his licence. The

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

15

licensee is responsible for the cleaning of the parking site during
the time he is operating.

(9) The  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  shall  put  up  a
conspicuous  sign  at  the  entrance  of  each  scheduled  car  park
indicating that:

(a)

(b)

the place is a scheduled car park; and

the times during which a car park attendant shall be in
attendance.

(10) A  car  park  attendant  shall  be  permitted  to  keep  any

gratuities he may receive from motorists using the car park.

(11) A  car  park  attendant  shall  use  all  care  and  diligence  to
ensure the orderly entry, parking and exit of vehicles in any car
park under his charge, and to prevent all thefts from, or damage to,
such  vehicles.  He  shall  note  down  in  writing  the  registration
number of any vehicle involved in a collision or other incident at
such car park, and report the particulars to the Police.

(12) Every  person  making  use  of  a  car  park  shall  comply  with
the  lawful signals  or  instructions  of  the  car park attendant  in
connection with the entry, parking and exit of the vehicle in or from
such car park. No person shall park a vehicle nearer than 750mm to
the side of another vehicle and car park attendants shall ensure that
this provision is complied with by drivers.

(13) The  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  may  attach  to  any
licence  i ssued  or  renewed   under  th is  regu latio n  such  other
conditions, as it may deem fit, to ensure the proper execution of the
duties of a car park attendant.

(14) Without  prejudice  to  any  other  liability  incurred  by  a  car
park attendant under the provisions of these Regulations or of any
other law, the Authority for Transport in Malta may, in any of the
following cases, suspend for such time as it may deem fit or cancel
the licence of a car park attendant or refuse its renewal:

(a)

(b)

(c)

if  it  is  satisfied  that  the  licensee  is  no  longer  fit  to
carry out his duties;

if the licensee is convicted of a crime;

if the licensee is proved to the Authority for Transport
in  Malta’s  satisfaction 
to  have  misbehaved  or
misconducted  himself  while  on  duty  or  to  have
infringed  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  regulation,  or
any of the conditions attached to his licence;

(d)

if  the  licensee  has  failed  to  meet  any  civil  liability
incurred by him towards any user of the car park under
his charge.

(15) The exercise by the Authority for Transport in Malta of its
functions under this regulation shall not render the Government
subject to any liability in respect of the loss of, or damage to any
vehicle, or its contents or fittings, in a parking place or in any other
respect.

(16) (a) Where  a  photocard  tag  issued  under  these  regulations

16

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Licence to act as 
motor route bus 
conductor.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Duty to stop in 
case of accident.
Substituted by:
L.N. 234 of 1997.
Amended by:
L.N. 104 of 2004;
L.N. 110 of 2023.

has been lost or stolen, or the car park attendant is
otherwise no longer in possession of such tag, the car
park attendant shall notify the Authority for Transport
in Malta within five days from the date on which he
becomes aware of such event.

(b) The Authority for Transport in Malta shall, within ten
days  from the  receipt  of  such notification,  issue a
duplicate tag in replacement of the original. The fee for
such replacement tag shall be of eleven euro and sixty-
five cents (11.65).

(17) (a) The  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  shall  keep  a
Register of all licensed car park attendants.

(b) The  Register  shall  show  the  name,  residential  address
and identity document number of each licensed car
park attendant and his licence number, the location of
the car park he is licensed to operate in and the time he
is licensed to operate in that car park.

(c) The Register shall be available for public inspection.

66. Deleted by L.N. 252 of 2011.

PART IV

Driving of Motor Vehicles

(1)

67.

 If in any case, owing to the presence of a motor vehicle
on a road, an accident occurs involving personal injury to another
person or damage to any vehicle, animal or other property, the driver
of the motor vehicle shall stop and, if required to do so by a Police
officer, a community officer, an enforcement officer of the Authority
or by any person having reasonable grounds for so requiring, give his
name and address, the name and address of the owner of the motor
vehicle, the details of the insurer of the motor vehicle as well as its
registration mark or number.

(2) Saving 

the  provisions  of 

the  other  sub-regulations
hereunder  of  this  regulation,  where  any  case  to  which  sub-
regulation (1) applies consists in an accident fitting the description
in  the  Second  Schedule,  but  not  involving  personal  injury  or
damage to public property, the persons involved in the accident
shall take steps to ensure the immediate removal of anything which
may be obstructing the free course of traffic and immediately
thereafter  exchange  such  information  as  is  required  by  these
regulations and give the relevant information on the circumstances
of the incident on such appropriate forms supplied by the driver’s
or owner’s insurers, which form shall be delivered to the respective
insurers by not later than two working days following the date of
the accident.

(3) Saving 

the  other  provisions  of 

the  sub-regulations
hereunder  of  this  regulation,  where  any  case  to  which  sub-
regulation (1) applies consists in an accident which does not fit the
description in the Second Schedule, but not involving personal
injury or damage to public property, and the persons involved agree

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

17

on the circumstances of the accident then, the persons involved in
the accident shall exchange such information as is required by these
regulations and give the relevant information on the circumstances
of the incident on such appropriate forms supplied by the driver’s
or owner’s insurers, which form shall be delivered to the respective
insurers by not later than two working days following the date of
the accident, and they shall take steps to ensure the immediate
removal of anything which may be obstructing the free course of
traffic immediately thereafter.

(4) Saving  the  provisions  of  the  other  sub-regulations  of  this
regulation, where any case to which sub-regulation (1) applies
consists in an accident which does not fit the description in the
Second Schedule, but not involving personal injury or damage to
public property, and the persons involved do not agree on the
circumstances of the accident then, the persons involved in the
accident shall immediately notify the community officer to whom
they shall give such information as is required by these regulations.

(5) Saving  the  provisions  of  the  other  sub-regulations  of  this
regulation, where any case to which sub-regulation (1) applies consists
of an accident which involves personal injury or damage to public
property, the persons involved in the accident shall immediately notify
the community officer and, or the enforcement officer of the Authority
and, or the Police, to whom they shall give such information as is
required by this regulation.

(6) The  form  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  not  be

admissible in evidence in criminal proceedings except -

(a)

in  criminal  proceedings 
declaration or information in the aforesaid form; or

in  respect  of  any  false

(b) at  the  instance  of  the  accused  who  is  the  driver  or
owner  who  gave  the  relevant  information  in  the
aforesaid form.

68. A  person  driving  a  motor  vehicle  shall  be  so  seated  as  to
have complete control of the motor vehicle, and a full view of the
road and of the traffic ahead of the motor vehicle. He shall not
leave the motor  vehicle  unattended without having taken due
precaution against its being moved in his absence or allow the
motor vehicle to stand on such street or be handled so as to cause
any unnecessary obstruction thereof or any inconvenience to the
public.

A  person  in  charge  of  a  motor  vehicle  for  hire  or  goods
vehicle shall at all times conduct his vehicle under the power of its
own motor and shall in no circumstances resort to free-wheeling
along any stretch of road either in the forward or in the reverse
direction, beyond a distance of 6 metres.

Control of motor 
vehicle.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 101 of 2011;
L.N. 252 of 2011;
L.N. 48 of 2012.

69.

(1) Saving the provisions of any other regulation limiting
the number of passengers or the maximum load that may be carried
in or on any vehicle, no person shall drive any motor vehicle which
is so overloaded with passengers or goods as to constitute danger
either  to the  passengers  carried  therein  or thereon  or  to third
parties.

Overloading of 
vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 101 of 2011;
L.N. 48 of 2012.

18

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

(2) No  person  shall  drive  any  motor  vehicle  for  hire  or  self
drive car on which there are more passengers than the number
indicated on the relative licence.

Carriage of things 
which may cause 
damage.

Corners.

70. No  person  shall  drive  any  motor  vehicle  which  shall  have
in, on, under or attached to such vehicle anything which, due to its
weight  or  position,  may  cause  damage  to  any  other  person’s
property, or to the street, road or other place of public thoroughfare,
or  which  may  interfere  with  the  steering  or  the  mechanical
efficiency of the vehicle.

71. Every person driving a motor vehicle shall before turning a
corner or approaching a cross-road proceed at a slow rate of speed
and signal the direction in which he intends to proceed.

Entering or leaving 
garage.

72. A  driver  of  a  motor  vehicle  when  entering  or  leaving  a
garage shall take such necessary precautions as are required to
avoid accidents and collisions with other vehicles on the road.

Owner to give 
information to 
identify driver.
Substituted by:
L.N. 110 of 2023.

Leaving a motor 
vehicle on the 
road.
Amended by:
L.N. 48 of 2019.
L.N. 110 of 2023.

73. The owner of a motor vehicle shall, if required by a member
of the Police Force or the enforcement officer of the Authority or
community officer, give any information which may lead the Police or
enforcement officer of the Authority or community officer to identify
any person who was driving such motor vehicle when any crime and,
or contravention is alleged to have been committed.

74.

(1)  No  motor  vehicle  may  be  left  in  any  road  in
contravention of any parking regulations or in such a position or in
such circumstances as to be likely to cause danger or obstruction to
other persons using the road.

(2)  Photographs,  film,  video-recordings,  electronic  images  or
any other record produced by a prescribed parking monitoring
device shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute proof of
their contents if they are accompanied by a certificate signed by a
police officer or community officer (in the same or in another
document) as to the circumstances of date, time and place in which
the photograph, film, video-recording, electronic image or other
record was produced.

(3)  Any  device  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  a
device prescribed by order of the Minister responsible for transport
who may in any such order lay down any conditions as to the
purposes for which, and the manner and other circumstances in
which, the device is to be used.

(4)  A document purporting to be a document, record or signed
certificate of the kind mentioned in sub-regulation (2) shall be
deemed to be such a document, record or certificate signed as
aforesaid unless the contrary is proved.

(5)  The owner of  the  vehicle  who is identified in  any  document,
record or signed certificate referred to in sub-regulation (2) shall be
responsible for any crime, and or contravention proven by the said
document, record or signed certificate unless when the crime and, or
contravention was committed the driver of the vehicle had been
stopped and identified by a Police officer or by an enforcement officer
of the Authority or a community officer upon or immediately after the
commission of the crime and, or contravention.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

19

(6)  Any  image  recorded  by  any  means  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation  (2)  may  be  converted  from  one  format  to  another,
transmitted, stored or reproduced by electronic or any other means
that allows the recorded image to be reproduced in intelligible form
including, without limitation, electronically.

(7)  Where  a  recorded  image  has  been  stored  in  electronic
format as provided in sub-regulation (2), the recorded image may
be reproduced in paper format which shall have the same effect for
all purposes as if it were an original document if the reproduction is
certified to be such in the certificate mentioned in sub-regulation
(2).

(8)  Any  device  prescribed  under  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be
deemed to have been functioning correctly at the time that any
document or record referred to in the said sub-regulation (2) was
produced by it, unless the contrary is proved.

(9)  The person against whom a certificate under sub-regulation (2)
is produced may require the attendance of the Police officer or
enforcement officer of the Authority or community officer who signed
the certificate for the purpose of cross-examination.

(10)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulations  (2)  to  (9),  'parking
monitoring device' means a device prescribed under sub-regulation
(2) that is capable of photographing or capturing the image of a
motor vehicle when in a stationary position

75. Every person driving a motor vehicle shall keep to the left
hand side of the road and, when overtaking any other vehicle, horse
or cattle, shall keep his vehicle on the right hand side of such
vehicle, horse or cattle except in traffic lanes expressly marked on
the carriageway for such purposes and within the limitations of
such markings, or for other just cause.

When  altering  direction  or  course,  or  slowing  down  or
stopping, or when overtaking any other vehicle, horse or cattle,
every driver shall exercise due care and attention, and shall indicate
his intention by hand signal or by a traffic indicator or indicator
light.

76. A major road is one where all traffic going over it has the
right of way, and traffic on all other roads converging into it shall
give way to that on the road referred to above, provided, however,
that the driver of any motor vehicle whether on a major or minor
road shall at all times exercise due care and shall take all necessary
precautions at any road junction.

77.

(1) A  person  driving  or  having  charge  of  a  motor  vehicle
shall not wilfully or negligently prevent, hinder or interrupt the free
passage to any person, vehicle, horse or cattle through any road.

(2) No person shall park or leave unattended any motor vehicle
in such a manner as to impede any motor vehicle of another person
from having free entrance to or exit from any premises used and
clearly marked as a garage by the word "GARAGE IN USE":

Provided  that  for  the  purpose  of  this  regulation  the  word
"garage" means any premises used specifically for the garaging

Driving on left 
side. 

Major road.

Obstructions.
Substituted by:
L.N. 3 of 2007.
Amended by:
L.N. 408 of 2007.

20

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

and, or parking of motor vehicles, and includes a drive-in.

(3) No  person  shall  mark  a  premises  as  a  garage  unless  that

premises is duly to be used for the garaging of any motor vehicle.

(4) No  person  shall  paint  or  cause  to  be  painted  carriageway
markings on either side of the road at the entrance to or exit from
any premises marked as a garage:

Provided  that  the  Authority  may  approve  the  painting  of
double yellow lines on each or either side of a premises marked as a
garage or on the opposite side of the road to ensure the safe passage
of a motor vehicle into and out of that garage.

(5) Any person who paints or causes to be painted yellow lines
or any other carriageway markings on a road at the entrance to or
e x i t   f r o m   a n y   p r e m i s e s   m a r k e d   a s   a   g a r a g e   w i t h o u t   t h e
authorisation of the Authority shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine of fifty-eight euro and
twenty-three cents (58.23) and a fine of eleven euro and sixty-five
cents  (11.65)  for  each  day  those  yellow  lines  or  carriageway
markings remain painted on the road.

78. 

(1)  Where any area or space in any road or square is marked
as, or allotted to, a reserved parking, and the Commissioner of Police
or the Authority issue a written permit in favour of the owners of
vehicles who may make use of such area or space, no motor vehicle
may be parked therein unless the relative permit is affixed on the front
windscreen of the vehicle in such a way that the relative permit is
clearly and fully visible.

(2)  The Authority may reserve a designated parking space for
disabled  persons  for  the  parking  therein  of  authorised  motor
v e h i c l e s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   t h e   P a r k i n g
Concessions for Persons with Disability Act.

(3)  The Authority may reserve a personalised designated parking
space for disabled persons for the parking therein of a particular motor
vehicle registered in the name of a Blue Badge holder when the driver
of such motor vehicle, besides being the holder of a valid Blue Badge
issued in accordance with the Parking Concessions for Persons with
Disability Act, is also a person with a long-term and substantial
physical impairment resulting in his full dependence on a wheelchair
for his mobility:

Provided  that  the  particular  motor  vehicle  shall  be  specially
modified to be driven solely by the Blue Badge holder who is a
wheelchair user in accordance with this sub-regulation:

Provided  further  that  the  Authority  shall  have  the  right  to
request any information as it may deem necessary to determine the
Blue Badge holder’s full dependence on a wheelchair for his mobility
including, inter alia, such medical certificates issued in his name
which indicate  that he has a long-term and substantial physical
impairment that results in the full dependence on a wheelchair for his
mobility.

(4)  The  Authority  may  also  reserve  a  personalised  designated
parking space for disabled persons for the parking therein of a

Reserved parking 
spaces.
Substituted by:
L.N. 174 of 2018.
Amended by:
L.N. 263 of 2022;
L.N. 113 of 2024.

Cap. 560.

Cap. 560.

Cap. 560.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

21

particular motor vehicle registered in the name of a person holding a
valid Blue Badge issued in accordance with the Parking Concessions
for Persons with Disability Act or in the name of a person entrusted
with his care, if besides being the holder of a valid Blue Badge issued
in terms of the Parking Concessions for Persons with Disability Act, is
also a person with a:

(a)
that results in:

substantial  and  long-term  physical  impairment

(i)

an  absolute  inability  to  walk  more  than

twenty (20) metres; or

(ii)

a  condition  wherein  if  he  walks  for  more
than twenty (20) metres this could be life threatening and
or, severely detrimental to his health and well-being, or

(b)

long-term  mental,  intellectual  or  psychosocial
disability manifesting, inter alia, in behaviour of concern, and
due to such behaviour he requires continuous human support:

long-term  mental, 

Provided that the Authority shall have the right to request
any information it may deem necessary to determine the Blue Badge
holder’s  long-term  and  substantial  physical  impairment  or  the  severe
and 
intellectual  or  psychosocial  disability
manifesting, inter alia, in behaviour of concern, described in this sub-
regulation including, inter alia, such medical certificates issued in his
name which indicate that he has the impairments attributed to the Blue
Badge holder: 

Provided  further  that  whenever  a  Blue  Badge  holder  is
dependent on one or more persons, who is also entrusted with the care
of the Blue Badge holder throughout the whole day and night, for his
ambulation,  the  Authority  shall  have  the  right  to  request  any
information  it  may  deem  necessary  to  determine  that  the  persons
entrusted  with  the  Blue  Badge  holder’s  ambulation  are  permanently
residing with the Blue Badge holder at his primary residential address
including  through,  inter  alia,  certified  copies  of  the  identification
documents  of  the  persons  entrusted  with  the  ambulation  of  the  Blue
Badge holder and, whenever these are available, utility bills issued in
the  name  of  said  person  that  clearly  indicate  that  his  permanent
residence corresponds with that of the Blue Badge holder.

(5)  When  the  Authority  reserves  a  personalised  designated
parking space for disabled persons in the circumstances referred to in
sub-regulation  (3),  the  parking  space  shall  have  clearly  and
prominently marked or indicated in it the registration number of the
authorised motor vehicle, whereas when the Authority reserves a
personalised designated parking space for disabled persons in the
circumstances referred to in sub-regulation (4), the parking space shall
have clearly and prominently marked or indicated in it the Blue Badge
num ber  o f  th e  B lue  Badg e  h old er   fo r  wh ose  b enefi t  such  a

22

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

S.L. 65.05.

personalised parking place has been reserved.

(6)  No person shall park or leave unattended any unauthorised
motor vehicle on a designated parking space for disabled persons
reserved by the Authority in accordance with the provisions of sub-
regulation (2).

(7)  No  person,  including  a  Blue  badge  holder,  shall  park  or
leave unattended any motor vehicle on a personalised designated
parking space for disabled persons reserved by the Authority in
accordance with the provisions of sub-regulation (3) or (4), except
t he   B l u e   B a dg e   ho ld e r   o r  th e   pe r s o n  fo r   w ho s e   ben e f it   t he
Authority has reserved the personalised designated parking space.

(8)  Any  authorised  person  who  parks  a  motor  vehicle  on  a
designated parking space for disabled persons shall be obliged to
display the Blue Badge in its entirety or, in the case of a personalised
designated parking space for disabled persons, the Blue Badge of the
disabled person for whose benefit the Authority has reserved that
personalised parking space, on the vehicle's front windscreen in such a
way that the front of the Blue Badge, that is the side which displays the
symbol of access, is clearly visible in its entirety in such a way that the
authenticity and validity thereof may be verified.

(9)  Deleted by Legal Notice 263 of 2022.

(10)

  The Authority may reserve designated parking spaces for

the parking of electric vehicles.

(11)

In the parking spaces which are reserved by the Authority
for electric vehicles as indicated by the appropriate sign established
in  the  Traffic  Signs  and  Carriageway  Markings  Regulations,
between 7.00am and 10.00pm only electric vehicles may be parked
to be charged, and for a maximum of thirty (30) minutes after the
vehicle is fully charged, whereas any other electric vehicle may be
parked thereon without restrictions during the remaining hours:

Provided  that  for  the  purposes  of  this  sub-regulation,
"electric  vehicle"  means  a Category M1  or  N1 vehicle  which  is
powered solely and exclusively by one or more electric motors using
electrical energy stored in batteries, which batteries are charged with
an  external  electricity  source,  including  plug-in  hybrid  vehicles  and
excluding electric motor cycles. 

(12) A person who breaches sub-regulation (6) or (7) or (8) or (11)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine
(ammenda) of two hundred and thirty three euro (€233).

(13) The  Authority  shall  revoke  the  personalised  designated
parking spaces or shall otherwise modify the designated parking space
including the signage and indications related to such personalised
designated parking spaces issued in accordance with the provisions of
sub-regulations (3) and (4), if it is established that:

(a)

  the  Blue  Badge  holder,  or  the  persons  entrusted
with  his  care  and,  or  ambulation,  have  obtained 
the
personalised  designated  parking  spaces  solely  by  means  of
fraud,  deceit  or  false  or  misleading  declarations,  submissions

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

23

and misrepresentations; 

(b)

the  Blue  Badge  holder,  or  the  persons  entrusted
with  his  care  and,  or  ambulation,  have  changed  their  primary
residential address, or are no longer entrusted with his care and,
or are no longer permanently residing in the address kept in the
Authority’s records; 

(c)

following  a  review  of  the  information  submitted
to  the  Authority  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  sub-
regulations  (3)  and  (4)  or  by  an  audit  conducted  by  the
Authority on the personalised designated parking spaces on its
records, it transpires that the information previously submitted
is  no  longer  correct  or  does  not  adequately  reflect  the  actual
circumstances  of  the  Blue  Badge  holder,  or  the  persons
entrusted  with  his  care  and,  or  ambulation,  due  to  recent
changes  to  the  circumstances  of  said  persons  which  were  not
duly communicated to the Authority for its approval; or

(d)

the  Blue  Badge  holder,  or  the  persons  entrusted

with his care and, or ambulation are deceased: 

Provided  that  it  shall  be  the  sole  responsibility  of  the
Blue  Badge  holder,  or  the  persons  entrusted  with  his  care  and,  or
ambulation, including legal persons that operate residential institutions
to update the Authority with any material changes to their residential
address  or  any  other  relevant  information  by  means  of  a  written
communication and subsequently request the Authority’s approval for
an  alternative  personalised  designated  parking  space  in  such  other
location close to the Blue Badge holder’s new permanent address:

Provided  further  that  any  person  who  feels  aggrieved  by  the
decision of the Authority to refuse an application or request submitted
in accordance with the provisions of sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) and,
or this sub-regulation, or to revoke or modify the personalised
designated parking space, shall have the right to appeal the decision in
accordance with the provisions of this sub-regulation by means of an
application filed before the Administrative Review Tribunal within
twenty-one (21) days from the service of the decision of the Authority
and such application shall clearly state the grounds for the judicial
review of the Authority’s decision and the remedies sought by the
appellant.

79.

No  person  shall,  unless  otherwise  directed    by  a  Police
officer  or  an  enforcement  officer  of  the  Authority  or  a  community
officer, park or leave unattended any motor vehicle or trailer:

(a) within twelve (12) metres on each side of any bus stop
or  fare  stage,  unless  official  road    markings  or  traffic
signs indicate otherwise;

(b) around a traffic roundabout or a traffic island;

(c) on, or within four (4) metres of a pedestrian crossing,

Parking 
prohibition.
Substituted by:
L.N. 156 of 2004;
L.N. 110 of 2023.

24

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

from the side of the  oncoming traffic, unless a build-
out exists;

S.L. 65.05.

S.L. 65.05.

Parking of motor 
cycles.

Reversing.

Right of way.
Amended by:
L.N. 206 of 2000.

(d) on the footpath unless road signage directs otherwise;
in  any  place  where  appropriate  road 
  markings
(e)
stipulated  by  the  Traffic  Signs  and    Carriageway
Markings  Regulations 
is
prohibited;

  parking 

indicate 

that 

(f)

in such a manner as to obstruct the passage of a vehicle
which is properly parked, or

(g) within five (5) metres of any corner, bend or splay:

Provided  that  in  the  case  of  a  bend  or  splay,  the  five  (5)
metre limit referred to in paragraph (g) shall be measured from the
point of intersection of the extended building alignment on each of
the two (2) streets forming such bend or splay:

Provided  further  that  where  the  road  markings  indicated  in
Part II D (f)(13) of the Traffic Signs and Carriageway Markings
Regulations on a particular street corner, bend or splay do not extend
to the prescribed five (5) metre limit, the said prohibition shall
likewise not extend to the full five (5) metres and shall be limited to
the distance covered by the said road markings.

80. Motor  cycles  shall  not  be  parked  parallel  to  the  kerb  or
wall of a street but shall be parked at an angle of not less than 45
degrees to such kerb or wall.

81. No  person  driving  a  motor  vehicle  shall  cause  the  motor
vehicle to travel backwards for a greater distance or time than is
absolutely necessary and shall take such precautions as are required
to avoid collision and accidents with persons or other vehicles on
the road.

82.

(1) Saving  the  provisions  of  regulation  84,  when  two
motor vehicles are approaching each other at an intersection of
roads of equal importance, the driver of the motor vehicle which
has the  other  vehicle on his right side, shall  allow such other
vehicle to pass. The driver of a motor vehicle proceeding from a
minor into a major road is to give way to traffic on the major road.

(2) Motor vehicles approaching a traffic roundabout shall give

way to motor vehicles already taking that roundabout.

(3) When  two  motor  vehicles  meet  in  a  narrow  street,  the
width of which does not allow the free passage of both, the driver
nearest to the wider part of the road, where both vehicles may pass
one another freely, will reverse his vehicle to that part of the road
and allow the other vehicle to proceed on its way.

(4) When two motor vehicles arrive at different roads forming
a T junction, the one at the junction road shall give priority to the
one at the through road.

Vehicles on 
priority duty.
Substituted by:
L.N. 335 of 2002.
Amended by:
XV. 2009.49.

83.

(1) Fire engines, ambulances, salvage and rescue vehicles
and other motor vehicles on priority duty may use acoustic and, or
visual warning devices by means of sirens, bells, two-tone horns
and flashing blue light while proceeding to an urgent call or in an
emergency. In the case of medical personnel responding to an

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

25

Drivers to give 
way to priority 
duty vehicles.

Signal before 
stopping.

Stopping at 
request.

Tow rope.

emergency call the flashing light shall be green.

(2) No vehicle other than those referred to in sub-regulation (1)
may use any of the acoustic or visual devices referred to in the said
sub-regulation  without  the  permission  of  the  Authority  for
Transport in Malta.

84. Drivers of vehicles shall, as soon as they hear or see any of
the acoustic or visual warning devices referred to in regulation 83,
move speedily to the left hand side of the road, and stop, leaving
free as much of the carriageway as may be possible for the transit
of the vehicle or vehicles on emergency or priority duty, and may
proceed on their way only after such vehicle, or vehicles, has
driven past them.

85. Every  person  driving  a  motor  vehicle  shall,  before
stopping,  drive  such  motor  vehicle  close  to  the  footpath  and
parallel thereto and indicate his intention to stop either by the use
of the light signal or, if such light signal is at the moment out of
order, by holding out his arm in a horizontal position, palm facing
downwards and slowly moving it in an up and down direction, in
such  a  manner  that  his  hand  is  clearly  visible  to  any  driver
immediately following his motor vehicle.

86. Every person driving a motor vehicle shall at the request or
signal of any person having charge of any led horse or driven cattle
cause the motor vehicle to stop and remain stationary as long as
reasonably necessary for the passage of such animals.

87. No  motor  vehicle  shall  tow  any  other  vehicle  unless  the
tow rope or chain be so adjusted that the distance separating the
nearest points of the motor vehicles shall not exceed 4.5 metres and
ste ps  sh al l  be   t ak en   t o   r en de r  t he   t ow   ro p e  o r   c ha in   e asi ly
distinguishable by other users of the road by the attachment of a
white rag.

No  person  shall  drive  a  motor  vehicle  towing  any  other
vehicle equipped with a steering gear unless the driver in control of
the towed vehicle holds a licence under Categories B, B1, C, D and
E of regulation 50, or under Category A if the towed vehicle is a
motor cycle, and no person shall drive a towed vehicle unless he is
so licensed:

Provided that for the purposes of this regulation any vehicle
on tow equipped with a steering gear unless the vehicle is being
towed by a crane or by any vehicle equipped with a weight lifting
device and has either the two front wheels or the two rear wheels
suspended  from  the  ground,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  vehicle
required to be under the control of a licensed driver as indicated in
the foregoing paragraph of this regulation even if such vehicle shall
have  any  mechanical  vital  part  or  parts  missing,  or  shall  be
otherwise incapable of running on its own power, owing to such
defect or damage.

The vehicle on tow shall carry lights both in front and at the

rear during the period when lights are to be brought in operation.

26

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Prohibitory traffic 
markings.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

S.L. 65.05

S.L. 499.56

Pedestrian 
crossings.

88. Where  a  white  line  is  painted,  or  studs  fixed,  or  round  a
corner or bend, no motor vehicle shall overtake another motor
vehicle proceeding in the same direction.

No  motor  vehicle  may  stop  within  6  metres  of  any  such
corner for the purpose of setting down or taking up or waiting for
passengers nor may the driver leave the motor vehicle within the
area of the white lines or studs.

Where  a  road  is  marked  by  any  of  the  traffic  markings
numbered (i)(a), (b), (c) and (d) under paragraph (C) of Part IV of the
Schedule to the Traffic Signs and Carriageway Markings Regulations,
no motor vehicles other than a motor route bus or other vehicle
authorized by the Authority in terms of regulation 69 of the Passenger
Transport Services Regulations shall stop within the area defined by
such traffic markings and the kerb:

Provided that this shall not apply to vehicles on priority duty as
described in regulation 83 or anything done with the permission or at the
direction of the Police or a traffic community officer or an authorized
officer of the Authority.

89.

(1) Where  the  carriageway  is  marked  with  parallel  white
lines or studs across its width, or with any other marking to indicate
a crossing for the use of pedestrians, all vehicles approaching such
crossing shall slow down and, if necessary, shall stop, to allow any
pedestrian to use such a crossing, and they shall in no case cross the
path of any pedestrian making use of such crossing.

(2) No  pedestrian  shall  linger  unnecessarily  when  making  use

of a pedestrian crossing.

(3) When  any  pedestrian  crossing  is  controlled  by  traffic  light
signals, operated either automatically or manually, pedestrians are
not to make use of such crossing unless authorised by such light
signals.

(4) The  light  signals  referred  to  in  the  last  preceding  sub-
regulation of this regulation shall consist of the lit word WAIT, of
the lit word CROSS and of the intermittently lit word CROSS and
shall signify as follows:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the lit word WAIT shall convey the prohibition for any
pedestrian to make use of the crossing;

the  lit  word  CROSS  shall  convey  an  indication  that
pedestrians may make use of the crossing; and

the  intermittently  lit  word  CROSS  shall  convey  an
indication  that  the  time  allowed  for  the  use  of  the
crossing is going to expire, and that no pedestrian, who
is not already crossing the carriageway, may make use
of the crossing.

Traffic lanes.
Amended by:
L.N.85 of 1999;
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

90. (1) Where  the  carriageway  is  divided  into  two  or  more
lanes, slow moving traffic and heavy motor vehicles shall use the
innermost lane except while overtaking or where there are signs
directing the use of other lanes, and other traffic shall make use of
the outer lane or lanes.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

27

(2) Where  the  inner  lane  of  a  carriageway  is  indicated  as  a
priority vehicle lane, it may only be used by any motor route bus and
any other passenger transport vehicle, taxis and, where authorised, by
karozzini, and by motorcycles, pedal cycles and any other vehicles on
priority duty as is mentioned in regulation 83(1).

(3) A  priority  vehicle  lane  shall  be  indicated  by  means  of  a
priority  vehicle  sign  which  may  also  indicate  the  period  of
operation of such priority vehicle lane.

(4) No  person  shall,  while  driving  any  vehicle  that  is  not  a
vehicle listed in sub-regulation (2), drive along a priority vehicle
lane other than in a case of emergency.

PART V

Equipment of Motor Vehicles

91.

(1) No  person  may,  without  the  prior  approval  in  writing

of the Authority -

(a) make, or order or cause the making of any alteration to
the  body,  including  the  seating  capacity  or  seating
arrangement,  or  any  mechanical  alteration  to  the
chassis or engine of any motor vehicle:

Provided  that  for  the  purpose  of  this  paragraph,  the
term  "alteration"  includes  any  addition  or  extension
and any changes in the seating capacity; or

(b) change, or order or cause the changing of the engine of

any motor vehicle; or

(c)

convert, or order or cause the conversion of, any motor
vehicle  from  the  class  in  which  it  is  registered  or
licensed to any other class; or

(d) affix  any  bull  bar  or  any  other  attachment  on  any
motor vehicle which may endanger the safety of traffic
or persons: 

Provided that prior to the registration of a motor
vehicle,  the  Authority  may,  in  the  case  of  newly
imported  motor  vehicles,  order  the  removal  of  all
similar attachments.

Alteration or 
conversion.
Amended by:
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 414 of 2007.

(2) No person shall have in his possession, and no person shall
use, order or cause to be used any motor vehicle which he knows to
be in contravention of the provisions of sub-regulation (1).

92. A  motor  vehicle  shall  be  equipped  with  two  entirely
independent and efficient braking systems (one of which shall
operate on all four wheels) or with one efficient braking system
(which shall operate on all four wheels) having two independent
means of operation, in each case so designed and constructed that
the failure of any single portion of any braking system shall not
prevent the brakes on two wheels, or in the case of a vehicle having
less than four wheels, on one wheel, from operating effectively so
as to bring the vehicle to rest within a reasonable distance:

Provided that in the case of a single braking system the two

Brakes. 

28

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

means  of  operation  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  otherwise  than
independent solely by reason of the fact that they are connected
either directly or indirectly to the same cross shaft.

In  the  case  of  a  motor  vehicle  having  more  than  three
wheels and equipped with two independent braking systems, if
either system operates only on two wheels, it shall be so designed
and constructed, that the brakes thereof shall act on two wheels on
the same axle.

Where, in the case of a single braking system, the means of
operation are connected directly or indirectly to the same cross
shaft, the brakes applied by one of such means shall act on all of
the  wheels  of  the  motor  vehicle  directly  and  not  through  the
transmission gear.

In  all  cases  the  brakes  operated  by  one  of  the  means  of
operation shall be applied by direct mechanical action without the
intervention of any hydraulic, electric or pneumatic device. One
means of operation shall be by foot pedal and one shall be self-
holding.

In  all  cases  the  brakes  operated  by  one  of  the  means  of
operation shall act directly upon the wheels and not through the
transmission gear.

Where brake connections are secured with bolts or pins, the
b o l t s   o r   p i n s   sh a l l   b e   t h r e a d e d  a n d   e ff e c t i v e l y  l o c k e d .   A l l
connections made with bolts or pins shall be such that when they
are in any position other than horizontal the head of the bolt or pin
shall be uppermost.

Every  invalid  carriage  shall  be  equipped  with  an  efficient
braking system, the brakes of which act on at least two of the
w heels  of  the  v ehicle  so  designed  and  con st ruct ed   that   the
application of the brakes shall bring the vehicle to rest within a
reasonable distance. 

Every  trailer  exceeding  100  kg.  unladen  shall  be  equipped
with a brake operating on at least two wheels in the case of a trailer
with not more than four wheels and on four wheels in the case of
trailers having more than four wheels.

Defective motor 
vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

93. No  person  shall  drive,  or  allow  to  be  driven  any  motor
vehicle, the brakes, springs or other mechanical vital parts of which
are defective.

Any  motor  vehicle  may  at  any  time  be  examined  by  the
Police,  Community  Officers  or  Enforcement  Officers  of  the
Authority and suspended from running if found unfit, dangerous to
the public, likely to damage public property, or otherwise not
conforming with these Regulations.

Fire extinguishers.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

94.  All  motor  vehicles,  other  than  private  cars  and  motor
cycles shall carry suitable appliances as approved by the Authority
for extinguishing fires, in such a position as to be available for
immediate use.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

29

Fittings.
Amended by
L.N. 98 of 1995;
L.N. 414 of 2007.

Horns.
Amended by:
L.N. 104 of 2004.
Substituted by:
L.N. 110 of 2023.

Obligatory lights.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

95.  (1) All  motor  vehicles  shall  have  stop  lights,  rear  view
mirror and direction indicators fitted. The direction indicators are
to be so fitted as to be clearly visible from the front and from the
rear. Motor vehicles, except motor cycles, shall have windscreen
wipers. These fittings shall be maintained in good working order.

(2) Seat belts shall be fitted to all seats on the following motor

vehicles registered to be used on the roads in Malta:

(a) M1,  M2  and  N1  motor  vehicles  manufactured  on  or

after the 1st January, 1998; and

(b) M3 motor vehicles, except those intended to also carry
standing  passengers,  and  N2  and  N3  motor  vehicles
manufactured on or after 1st October, 2001.

96.

(1)  Every  person  driving  a  motor  vehicle  shall,  where
necessary, give warning of his approach by sounding the horn or
other device.

(2) No  person  shall  make,  cause  or  permit  to  be  made  any
unnecessary noise with the motor vehicle horn or with any other
warning device.

(3) Any  police  officer  or  enforcement  officer  of  the  Authority
or community officer may prohibit the use of any horn or other
warning device which is strident or otherwise objectionable.

(4) Any  Police  officer,  enforcement  officer  of  the  Authority  or
community officer may order the removal from any motor vehicle of
any horn or other warning device the use of which is prohibited under
the provisions of sub-regulation (3). 

(5)

  The  provisions  of  sub-regulations  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  shall  not
apply to any motor vehicle referred to in regulation 83(1) whilst on an
urgent call or in any other emergency..

97. No  person  shall  cause  or  permit  a  motor  vehicle  to  be  on
any road, or shall drive or be in charge of a motor vehicle which is
being used on the road between sunset and sunrise whether it is in
motion or stationary without it being equipped with two front
lamps on opposite sides of the vehicle and a rear lamp at the back
of the vehicle:

Provided  that,  in  the  case  of  a  loaded  trailer,  the  lights  on
such trailer shall be two at the rear bottom of the trailer (one on
each side thereof) and two at the rear top of the load (one on each
side thereof). 

These  lamps  shall  in  the  case  of  the  front  lamps  emit
forward a white or yellow light  or such  other  light as  may  be
approved by the Authority and in the case of the rear lamp exhibit a
red light to a reasonable distance in the reverse direction.

98. The  light  projected  from  these  lamps  in  the  case  of
stationary vehicles shall not be more powerful than the light of a 7
watts bulb.

Wattage.

30

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Rear identification 
plate to be lit.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

Headlamps.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007;
L.N. 24 of 2010.

99. The  rear  light  shall,  apart  from  the  requirements  of
regulation  97,  be  so  constructed  as  to  throw  by  transparency
reflection or otherwise a white light to render easily distinguishable
every letter and figure on the rear identification plate and shall not
be more than 1 metre from the level of the ground. In the case of
goods vehicles the rear light shall not be more than 1.8m from the
level of the ground.

100.  All  motor  vehicles  while  in  motion  shall  be  required  to

have two front head lamps showing a white or yellow light.

The  headlamps  are  to  be  so  constructed,  fitted  and
maintained that when lighted the beam of light emitted therefrom
( a )   i s   p e r m a n e n t l y   d e f l e c t e d   d o w n w a r d s ,   o r   ( b )   c a n   b e
mechanically  dimmed  or  deflected  downwards,  or  (c)  be  so
a r r a n g e d   t h a t   t h e   o ff - s i d e   h e a d l i g h t   c a n   b e   m e c h a n i c a l l y
extinguished while the near side head-lamp is dipped or deflected
to the left. Provided that in the case of (c) a parking light on the off-
side of the vehicle is either permanently switched on or else comes
into  operation  when  the  off-side  headlight  is  extinguished.
Headlights shall in all cases be dimmed or dipped in such a manner
as to render the light incapable of dazzling any pedestrian or driver
of another vehicle proceeding from the opposite direction.

The  beam  of  light  emitted  from  the  two  front  headlamps
shall project no less than 11 metres in front of the car and shall be
dipped  or  dimm ed  whenever  a  person  or  another  vehicle  is
proceeding from the opposite direction.

When a motor vehicle is being driven in a well-lit inhabited
area, or along a straight and well-lit road, only the side lamps shall
be  lighted  provided that,  when  the  said  vehicle arrives  in the
vicinity of a turning of the road outside an inhabited area, the driver
thereof shall light the dimmed headlamps or shall flicker such
lights.

Fitting of 
headlamps.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007;
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

101. The  two front headlamps shall be  fitted  with frosted glass
or any other anti-dazzle material and shall be so fixed that the
centre of the lamps is at a height not exceeding one metre from the
ground and, except in the case of a lamp used only in fog, not less
than 660 mm from the ground.

The  Authority  may  permit,  according  to  its  discretion,  a
maximum height from the ground of 1.4 metres in the case of
headlamps  fixed  on  trucks,  tractors,  and  other  similar  heavy
vehicles.

The  two  front  headlamps  shall  be  fixed  in  such  a  manner
that no part of the vehicle or its equipment (exclusive of the driving
mirror  or  any  direction  indicator  when  in  operation)  extends
laterally on the same side as the lamp for more than 305 mm.
beyond  the  centre  of  the  lamp,  unless  two  other  white  lights
conforming in all respects to the provisions of these Regulations
are so fixed to the front of the vehicle.

Motor cycle 
headlamp.

102.

In the case of motor cycles one lamp fitted with anti-dazzle
material and capable of being dipped or dimmed by some automatic
mechanism shall be carried attached to the front besides the rear

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

31

red light required by all other vehicles. When the motor cycle is
driven with a side-car attachment an additional lamp shall  be
carried on the outside end of the side-car. This regulation shall also
apply to invalid carriages or other mechanically propelled vehicles
having only three wheels.

103. No  other  lights  other  than  those  prescribed  in  these

Prescribed lights.

Regulations shall be permitted. 

104. The  Commissioner  of  Police,  if  satisfied  that  any  part  of
any road within an area specially set aside for the parking of motor
vehicles or as a stand for hackney carriages, is adequately lighted
may give his consent for the use of such parking places or stand by
motor vehicles without lights and it shall not be necessary for
motor vehicles standing in any parking place in respect of which
such consent has been given to keep their lights on.

Exemption for 
certain standing 
motor vehicles.

105. No person shall drive or run the engine of a motor vehicle

Noise.

in such a manner as to cause undue noise.

106. No person shall drive a motor vehicle unless it is provided
with an efficient silencer affixed to the exhaust pipe of such motor
vehicle in such a manner that the exhaust shall be projected through
the  silencer,  or  which  has  a  cut-out  attached  thereto  or  any
mechanism or device for cutting out the silencer affixed to such
vehicle.

107. No person shall drive any motor vehicle, or cause or allow
or  suffer  to  be  driven  any  motor  vehicle  in  his  possession  or
control, when, from any cause whatsoever, the exhaust pipe of such
vehicle, or its connections, emits smoke, grit, sparks, ashes, cinders
or oily substances.

Silencer.

Exhaust pipe not to 
emit pollutants.

108. All  motor  vehicles  shall  be  equipped  with  speedometers,
which shall be fixed in a position readily visible to the driver and
shall always be kept in good working order.

Speedometers.

109. The  steering  mechanism  shall  be  so  constructed  or
arranged that no over lock shall be possible and that the wheels
shall not in any circumstances foul any part of the vehicle.

Steering.

The steering arms shall be polished but shall not be painted

or plated.

The  ball  and  socket  joints  of  steering  connections,  when
such are used, shall not be pendant. Dust excluding covers fitted to
any joint or connection of the steering mechanism shall be capable
of being easily removed to facilitate inspection.

Where steering connections are secured with bolts or pins,

the bolts or pins shall be threaded and effectively locked.

All  connections  made  with  bolts  or  pins  shall  be  such  that
when they are in any position other than horizontal the head of the
bolt or pin shall be uppermost.

110.

(1) No  person may use  any solid  tyres unless  it  is of the

Tyres.

resilient or supercushion type.

(2) No  person  may  use  any  tyre  which  is  so  worn  out  that  it
may cause damage to the road, undue noise or vibration or danger

32

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Windscreens and 
other windows.
Added by:
L.N. 3 of 2007.
Substituted by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.
Amended by:
L.N. 48 of 2012.

to other road users.

(3) No motor vehicle with caterpillar tracks shall be driven on
any  road  but  it  shall  be  loaded  on  another  motor  vehicle  for
transportation.

(4) No person may use any sectional tyre.

110A. (1) No person shall drive, or cause or permit to be driven
on a road a motor vehicle, other than an M2 or an M3 vehicle, the
glazings of which do not allow a visible light transmission of at
least -

(a) 75 per cent in the case of the windscreen;

(b) 70 per cent in the case of the front side windows;

(c) 30 per cent in the case of the rear side windows; and

(d) 60 per cent in the case of the rear most window:

Provided that if the vehicle is equipped with left and right-
h an d   s i d e   r e a r   v i e w   m i r r o r s ,   t h e   m i n i m u m   a l l o w ab l e   l i g h t
transmitted through the rear most windows may be below 60 per
cent but shall not be less than 30 per cent:

Provided further that paragraphs (c) and (d) shall not apply
in  the case  of the  rear  side  glazing  and  the  rear most  glazing
marked with the type approval symbol V.

(2) No person shall drive, or cause or permit to be driven on a
road an M2 or M3 vehicle where the glazings of that vehicle do not
allow a visible light transmission of at least -

(a) 75 per cent in the case of the windscreen,

(b) 70 per cent in the case of the front side windows, and

(c) 30 per cent in the case of all remaining windows:

Provided  that  where  the  vehicle  is  fitted  with  one  or  more
functional surveillance cameras which are positioned so as to
capture the entire seating area of the vehicle and in the vehicle
there  are  signs  showing there are  surveillance  cameras  in the
vehicle, the limits provided for under paragraph (c) shall not apply.

(3) A  person who, for medical reasons,  requires  tinting  on  the
front side window to the right of the driver which would allow a
light transmittance which is less than 70 per cent but not less then
55 per cent, shall apply for a special permit from the Authority:

Provided  that  the  medical  conditions  for  which  the  said
exemption from such restrictions may be issued shall be those
associated with photo-sensitivity disorders, as certified by an eye
or skin specialist.

For  the  purpose  of  this  sub-regulation  the  photosensitivity
disorders referred to herein are disorders caused by exposure to
ultraviolet  radiation.  Diseases  that  are  associated  with  light
e x p o s u r e   i n c l u d e   c o n t a c t   d e r m a t i t i s ,   v a c c i n i f o r m e ,   l u p u s
erythematosus,  polymorphous  light  eruption,  Porphyria  and
xeroderma pigmentosum.

(4) No tint, film, other substance or material shall be applied to

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

33

the windscreen of a motor vehicle.

Nothing in this sub-regulation shall be construed to prohibit
the tinting of the top part of the front windscreen of a motor vehicle
with a strap, located at the very top of the windscreen, not wider
than 20 per cent of the height of the windscreen but, in any case,
not wider than a maximum of 100 mm, provided that the light
transmittance of the strap shall not be less than 35 per cent.

(5) Any  tint,  film,  other  substance  or  material  applied  to  any
window,  other  than  the  windscreen,  of  a  motor  vehicle  shall
conform to the levels prescribed in sub-regulation (1).

111.

(Revoked by Legal Notice 162 of 2003).

112.

(Revoked by Legal Notice 414 of 2007).

113.

(Revoked by Legal Notice 414 of 2007).

114.  No person may use on the road any motor minibus, goods
vehicle (whose gross vehicle weight exceeds 3,500 kgs), tractor or
truck, unless there is attached, to either of its rear wheels, a flap of
such size as to prevent any material from being ejected by such
wheel on to a following vehicle.

115. (1)  No person may hold and, or make use of any hand-held
mobile device whilst driving a motor vehicle and, or  motor cycles
and, or e-kickscooters and, or whilst such motor vehicle and, or
motor cycles and, or e-kickscooters are stationary in traffic;

(2) No  person  may  wear  in  the  ear  which  is  closest  to    the
window any in-ear or over-ear device or any similar device, whilst
driving  a  motor  vehicle  and,  or  whilst  such  motor  vehicle  is
stationary in traffic;

(3)

  No  person  may  wear  or  make  use  of  an  in-ear  or  over-ear
hands-free device or any similar device in both ears whilst stationary in
traffic and, or driving any motor cycle and, or e-kickscooter.

116. No driver shall operate, or cause, or permit to be operated
any radio, tape recorder, record player or similar apparatus on or in
any motor vehicle in a way that it may hinder or is likely to hinder
that driver from hearing properly or which may cause annoyance to
passengers in the vehicle or other people in any inhabited place.

116A. (1) N2 and N3 motor vehicles which have been registered
with the Authority on the 1st January 2000 or after that date and
which are not type-approved or not approved as a single vehicle
shall, not later than the 31st March, 2009, be equipped, on the
passenger side, with wide-angle and close-proximity mirrors which
fulfil the requirements for class IV and class V mirrors under
Directive 2003/97/EC respectively:

Overall length and 
width of vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 236 of 2002.

Combination of 
vehicles. 

Permission in 
writing.

Flap attached to 
rear wheels.
Substituted by:
L.N. 335 of 2002.
Amended by:
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

Use of mobile 
phones and other 
devices.
Substituted by:
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 110 of 2023.

Electronic sound.
Substituted by:
L.N. 3 of 2007.

Retrofitting of 
mirrors to goods 
vehicles.
Added by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

Provided 

total
permissible weight not exceeding 7.5 tons shall be exempted from
the provisions of this sub-regulation where it transpires that it is

that  N2  vehicles  having  a  maximum 

34

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

impossible to mount a class V mirror in a way that ensure that the
following conditions are fulfilled:

(i)

(ii)

no part of the mirror is less than 2m (a tolerance
of  +  10cm  may  be  applied)  from  the  ground,
regardless  of  the  adjustment  position,  when  the
vehicle  is  under  a  load  corresponding  to  its
maximum technically permissible weight; and
the  mirror  is  fully  visible  from  the  driving
position.

(2) N2 and N3 vehicles registered with the Authority on the 1st
January 2000 or after that date that are already equipped, on the
passenger side, with wide-angle and close-proximity  mirrors,
whose combination of fields of vision covers not less than 95% of
the field of vision at ground level of a class IV mirror and not less
than 85% of the field of vision at ground level of a class V mirror
under Directive 2003/97/EC shall be deemed to be in compliance
with sub-regulation (1).

(3) Vehicles  referred  to  in  this  regulation  which,  for  want  of
available, economically viable, technical solutions, cannot be
equipped with mirrors complying with the requirements set out in
sub-regulations (1) and (2), may be equipped with supplementary
mirrors and, or other devices of indirect vision, provided that the
combination of such devices covers not less than 95% of the field
of vision at ground level of a class IV mirror and not less than 85%
of  the  field  of  vision at ground  level  of class V  mirror  under
Directive 2003/97/EC.

PART VI

General Provisions relating to Motor Vehicles

117.  While  a  motor  vehicle  is, or  is  about  to  be,  set  in  motion,
no person shall alight from, mount on, or hang on to it or behave in
any  other manner  tending  to cause  danger or  apprehension  to
himself or to others.

No driver or conductor of a motor vehicle shall permit any
of the acts prohibited by the foregoing paragraph of this regulation.

Dangerous 
behaviour.

Flags.

118. No  person  shall  display  a  flag  on  any  motor  vehicle

without permission from the Commissioner of Police.

Importers and 
dealers.
Amended by:
L.N. 104 of 2004.

119.

Importers  of,  and  dealers  in,  motor  vehicles  shall  keep  a
register, wherein all sales, purchases or disposals shall be noted in
ink together with full particulars respecting the motor vehicles, the
name and address of buyers, sellers or consignees and shall notify
in writing each transaction within seven days to the Commissioner
of Police. These registers shall be numbered and shall be shown on
demand to any police officer not below the rank of inspector or
community officer:

Provided  that  in  the  case  of  public  transport  vehicles  the
said notice shall be given to the Authority and the said power of
inspection shall be exercised by the officers of that Authority.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

35

120.

(1) There  shall  be  held  an  examination  of  all  motor
vehicles, at such intervals and frequencies as may be prescribed, by
such examiners and on such dates and in such places as shall be
indicated by the Authority, who shall also have the power to order
the re-examination of such vehicles as he deems fit.

Examinations. 
Substituted by:
L.N. 125 of 1998.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

(2) Any  owner  who  fails  to  have  his  vehicle  examined  or  re-
examined as aforesaid shall have the licence in respect of the
vehi cle  susp ended,  u nti l  su ch  t im e  as  th e  veh icle  has  been
examined and passed fit for the road.

121.

(1) Every  motor  vehicle,  other  than  a  private  car,  fitted
with a diesel engine shall have the fuel injector pump of the engine
sealed by the examiner when such vehicle is brought to him for
examination and found fit.

Vehicle fitted with 
diesel engine.
Amended by:
L.N. 414 of 2007.

(2) The  Authority  may  order  that  the  provisions  of  sub-

regulation (1) of this regulation be applied to any private car.

(3) The  Authority  may  authorise,  when  it  is  necessary  for  the
purpose  of  effecting  repairs  or  for  any  other  good  cause,  the
breaking of any seals affixed in accordance with the preceding sub-
regulations of this regulation.

122. The  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  shall  have  power  to
fix parking places and the number and type of motor vehicles which
may use the same.

The Authority for Transport in Malta shall be empowered to
indicate parking places and also roads where no parking shall be
permitted, by affixing signs in the places concerned.

The Authority may reserve stands for taxi-cars. Any stands
so reserved shall be indicated by an appropriate sign showing the
number of taxi-cars which may be exposed for hire. No motor
vehicles other than taxi-cars may park in a stand so reserved. 

The Commissioner of Police may, for a specific occasion or
function, reserve parking places, or space in parking places, for
particular  authorities,  persons  or  groups:  provided  that  the
Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta  may  provide  for  continuous
parking spaces.

(1)

123.

It  shall  not  be  lawful  for  more  than  one  person  in
addition to the driver to be carried on any motor cycle, nor shall it
be lawful for any such person to be so carried otherwise than sitting
astride on the motor cycle and on a proper seat securely fixed to the
motor-cycle behind the driver’s seat.

(2) No  person  may  drive  or  be  carried  on  any  motor  cycle  or

quad bikes unless he is at the time wearing a crash helmet.

(3) For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation the
expression "motor cycle" means any motor vehicle with two wheels
and includes a motor cycle with side-car attachment.

Parks for motor 
vehicles.
Amended by:
L.N. 93 of 2003;
XV. 2009.49.

Pillion riding and 
wearing of 
helmets.
Amended by:
L.N. 3 of 2007;
L.N. 414 of 2007.

36

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Orders given by 
the Police and 
community 
officers.
Substituted by:
L.N. 104 of 2004;
L.N. 110 of 2023.

124.

(1)  Every  person  driving  or  having  charge  of  a    motor
vehicle shall at all times immediately comply with any order,
indication or signal given or made by the Police officer or an
enforcement officer of the Authority or a community officer for the
purpose  of  regulating  traffic  or  for  any  other  purpose  in  the
exercise of their duty.

(2) Any  person  who  intentionally  gives  to  any  Police  officer  or
enforcement officer of the Authority or community officer in the
exercise of their duty incorrect information regarding his name,
surname, identity card number, address, or other details and, or
document  that  may  be  lawfully  required  shall  be  guilty  of  a
contravention.

Vehicular traffic 
light signals.
Amended by:
L.N. 91 of 2001;
L.N. 414 of 2007.

125.

(1) The  Authority  may  erect  or  authorise  the  erection  of
light signals, operated either automatically or manually, in the
centre of any road intersection or junction, or at the side of any
road, for the purpose of regulating vehicular traffic in that area.

(2) One of such signals shall consist of three vertically erected
signalling lamps emitting, when in operation, a red light, a green
light and an amber light respectively which shall signify as follows:

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  red  signal  shall  convey  the  prohibition  that
vehicular traffic shall not proceed beyond the stop line
on the carriageway or, if there is no stop line, beyond
the  signals  where  these  are  erected  on  the  side  of  the
road; where the light signals are in the centre of a road
intersection or junction, and there is no stop line on the
the
carriageway, 
prohibition  that  vehicular  traffic  is  not  to  emerge  on
the intersecting road or junction;

shall  convey 

signal 

red 

the 

the  green  signal  shall  convey  an  indication  that
vehicular  traffic  may  proceed  straight,  or  turn  to  the
left or to the right;

the  amber  signal  shall  be  an 
indication  of  an
impending  change  from  the  green  signal  to  the  red
signal and shall convey the same prohibition as the red
signal:

Provided  that  if,  when  such  amber  signal  first
appears, a vehicle is so close to the stop line or signals
or  road  intersection  or  junction,  as  the  case  may  be,
that  it  cannot  be  safely  stopped  in  accordance  with
paragraph  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  this  regulation,
such prohibition shall not apply:

Provided further that when a flashing amber light
is in operation, such signal shall convey an indication
that vehicular traffic is to proceed with caution owing
to a road intersection or junction or to the presence of
a pedestrian crossing.

(3) When  the  signal  consists  of  three  signalling  lamps  in
triangular form emitting, when in operation, two intermittent red
light signals and an amber light respectively, such lights shall
signify as follows -

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

37

(a)

(b)

intermittent 

the
the 
prohibition  that  traffic  shall  not  proceed  beyond  the
stop line;

shall  convey 

signals 

red 

the  amber  signal  shall  convey  the  prohibition  that
traffic  shall  not  proceed  beyond  the  stop  line  on  the
carriageway,  except for  a  vehicle which  is  so close to
the  stop  line  that  it  cannot  safely  be  stopped  without
proceeding beyond the stop line.

(4) Vehicular 

traffic  proceeding 

the
foregoing provisions of this regulation shall proceed with due
regard to the safety of other users of the road and subject to the
directive of the Police or other duly authorised person who may be
engaged in the regulation of traffic.

in  accordance  with 

Responsibility of 
owner.

Speed limits.
Amended by:
L.N. 58 of 2002;
L.N. 104 of 2004;
L.N. 414 of 2007;
L.N. 252 of 2011;
L.N. 344 of 2018;
L.N. 110 of 2023.

126. The  owner  or  driver  is  responsible  that  the  motor  vehicle

owned by him is kept clean and in a good state of repair.

127.

(1) No  motor  vehicle  shall  exceed  the  speed  limit  as

shown in the table hereunder: 

Class of vehicle

(A) Fitted with pneumatic tyres

Taxicars .................................
Motor vehicles for hire ...........
Self-drive motor vehicles .......
Private cars ............................
Motor cycles ..........................
Motor cycles for hire ..............
Motor hearses ........................
Invalid carriages ....................
Minibuses ..............................
Goods vehicles up to 3 tonnes 
Goods vehicles over 3 tonnes 
I n d u s t r i a l   a n d   a g r i c u l t u r a l
vehicles .................................
Towing vehicles .....................
Motor ambulances ..................
Fire engines ...........................

Maximum speed in 
kilometres per hour

In towns and 
villages

Outside towns 
or villages

50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
40
40
40

80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
60
60
60

20
20
No limit
No limit

30
30
No limit
No limit

38

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Traffic speed 
monitoring.

P o l i c e   a n d   H i g h   L e v e l
I n t e r n a t i o n a l   D e l e g a t i o n s
escorted by the Police, Armed
Forces , Corradino Correctional
F a c i l i t y  
i n   c a s e s   w h e n
transporting high-risk inmates or
i n   c a s e   o f   e m e r g e n c y  
,
enforcement  officers  of  the
A u t h o r i t y   a n d   c o m m u n i t y
officers in cases of emergency
a n d   C u s t o m s   v e h i c l e s   o n
emergency or priority duty .....

No limit

No limit

(B) Fitted with solid tyres

All vehicles ............................

15

20

(2) Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the
Authority may prescribe in respect of any particular road or area a
lower speed limit than that specified in sub-regulation (1):

Provided  that  the  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  not
apply to any motor vehicle participating in a sporting event held
with the permission of the Commissioner of Police on a public road
which is at the time closed to the public for the purpose of the
holding of the said sporting event.

(3) Photographs,  film,  video-recordings,  electronic  images  or
any  other  record  produced  by  a  prescribed  speed  monitoring
device, including any record of a measurement made by the device,
shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute proof of their
contents if they are accompanied by a certificate signed by a police
officer or community officer (in the same or in another document)
as  to  the  circumstances  of  date,  time  and  place  in  which  the
photograph, film, video-recording, electronic image or other record
was produced.

(4) Any  device  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  a
d e v i c e   p r e s c r i b e d   b y   or d e r   o f  t h e   M in i s t e r   r e s p o n s i bl e   f o r
Transport who may in any such order lay down any conditions as to
the purposes for which, and the manner and other circumstances in
which, the device is to be used.

(5) A document purporting to be a document, record or signed
certificate of the kind mentioned in sub-regulation (1) shall be
deemed to be such a document, record or certificate signed as
aforesaid unless the contrary is proved.

(6) The  owner  of  the  vehicle  which  is  identified  in  any
document, record or signed certificate referred to in sub-regulation
(1)  shall  be  responsible  for  any  offence  proved  by  the  same
document, record or signed certificate unless the driver of the
vehicle when the offence was committed is shown to have been
stopped  and  identifie d  by  the  p ol i c e   im m e d ia te l y   a f t e r   t he
commission of the offence.

(7) Any  image  recorded  by  any  means  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation  (3)  may  be  converted  from  one  format  to  another,

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

39

transmitted, stored or reproduced by electronic or any other means
that allows the recorded image to be reproduced in intelligible form
including, without limitation, electronically.

(8) Where  a  recorded  image  has  been  stored  in  electronic
format as provided in sub-regulation (7), the recorded image may
be reproduced in paper format which shall have the same effect for
all purposes as if it were an original document if the reproduction is
certified to be such in the certificate mentioned in sub-regulation
(3).

(9) Any  device  prescribed  under  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  be
deemed to have been functioning accurately and correctly in all
respects at the time that any document or record referred to in the
said paragraph was produced by it unless the contrary is proved.

(10) The person against whom a certificate under sub-regulation
(3) is produced may require the attendance of the police officer or
community officer who purportedly signed the certificate for the
purpose of cross-examination.

(11) For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulations  (3)  to  (6),  ''speed
monitoring device'' means a device prescribed under sub-regulation
(3) that is capable of photographing or capturing the image of a
motor vehicle while simultaneously measuring and recording its
speed.

128.

(Revoked by Legal Notice 158 of 2009).

PART VII

Motor Vehicles for Hire and Minibuses

129. Deleted by L.N. 252 of 2011.

130.

(1) Every motor vehicle for hire, self-drive motor vehicle
or motor minibus for public transport shall be fit and safe in every
respect for the conveyance of passengers.

(2) A  motor  vehicle  for  hire  or  motor  minibus  for  public
transport shall contain a fire extinguisher, a security hammer and a
security triangle, and also as regards a public service garage van
and a motor minibus for public transport, a first-aid kit.

(3) A  motor  vehicle  for  hire  which  is  a  public  service  garage
van and which is licensed and/or registered to carry between eight
and  ten  passengers,  shall  have  a  seat  belt  in  respect  of  each
passenger.

(4)

Every  motor  minibus  manufactured  after  the  1st  January

Carriage of school 
children.
Substituted by:
L.N. 3 of 2007.

Substituted by:
L.N. 85 of 1999;
L.N. 155 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

Grant of hire 
licence.
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999.
Substituted by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Safety of motor 
vehicles for hire, 
etc.
Substituted by:
L.N. 85 of 1999.
Amended by:
L.N. 386 of 2004;
L.N. 414 of 2007;
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011;
L.N. 48 of 2012.

40

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

1998 shall have a seat belt in respect of each passenger.

(5) A  motor  vehicle  for  hire  which  is  a  public  service  garage
van shall have affixed to the front right side-door window a self
adhesive  sticker  of  transparent  material,  which  indicates  the
following information -

Vehicle registration number ..................................................
Registered Owner ..................................................................
Passenger Capacity ...............................................................
(No smoking sign) Please refrain from smoking.

(6)

There  shall  be  written  in  white  on  each  of  the  side  front

doors of motor minibuses for public transport the following:

Public Transport Vehicle .......................................................
Registered Number ................................................................
Passenger Capacity ...............................................................

130A.(1)

No  person  shall  drive  a  motor  vehicle  for  hire
unless that person is in possession of a driver’s tag issued to him by
the Authority in terms of this regulation.

(2)

The said tag shall only be issued by the Authority to that

driver who:

(a)

(b)

is in possession of the appropriate driving licence;

is of good repute and conduct;

(c)

attends regularly a course of instruction approved
by the Authority and successfully undergoes an examination at
the end of the said course.

Conditions for 
obtaining a 
driver’s tag.
Added by:
L.N. 48 of 2012.
Substituted by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

Good repute and 
conduct.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

130B. Regulation  62D  shall  apply  for 

the  purpose  of
determining whether an applicant for a driver’s tag is of good repute
and conduct.

Application for 
the granting or 
renewal of a 
driver’s tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

130C.(1)

An  application  for  the  granting  or  renewal  of  a
driver’s tag shall be submitted to the Authority in the form stipulated
by  the  same  Authority  and  shall  contain  such  particulars  as  the
Authority may require and shall be submitted together with:

(a) a certificate issued by the Police detailing any criminal
offences  for  which  the  applicant  may  have  been
sentenced together with the punishment thereof; and

(b)

the relevant  application fee as prescribed in the Third
Schedule.

(2)

An application for a driver’s tag  shall be processed and

decided upon by the Authority.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

41

Decision on the 
granting or 
renewal of a 
driver’s tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

130D. (1)

The  decision  of  the  Authority  shall  be  sent  by
registered  post  to  the  applicant  at  the  address  specified  in  the
application.

(2) Where  the  Authority  intends  to  refuse  an  application,  it
shall  give  the  applicant  concerned  notice  in  writing  setting  out  the
reasons for its intention to do so. Every notice of refusal shall state that
the applicant has a right to make representations in writing, within ten
days, to the Authority giving  reasons why the application should not
be  refused  and  the  Authority  shall  consider  any  representations  so
made before arriving at a final decision. The Authority shall notify in
writing its final decision to the applicant concerned.

(3) When  an  application  is  refused  by  the  Authority,  the
applicant  may  appeal  to  the  Tribunal  against  such  decision  within
thirty days from its notification.

130E. (1)

A  driver’s  tag  granted  or  renewed  in  accordance
with regulation 130A shall be valid for a period of five years from the
date on which it is issued or any other shorter period, specified thereon
by the Authority, unless previously revoked, suspended or surrendered
and shall not be transferable.

Validity of driver’s 
tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

(2)

The holder of a driver’s tag shall be obliged to satisfy the
requirements of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 130A throughout the
validity  period  of  the  same  tag  and  shall  inform  the  Authority  in
writing of any conviction against him of any offence contemplated in
paragraph  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  62D  within  twenty-
one  days  from  that  conviction  or,  when  an  appeal  is  entered,  within
twenty days from when such appeal is decided.

(3)

A  person  who  contravenes  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be

guilty of an offence.

130F. The  driver  of  a  motor  vehicle  for  hire  shall  while
carrying passengers wear the driver’s tag in a conspicuous place on the
chest in a manner that can easily be seen.

Driver to wear tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

130G. (1)

A driver who loses his tag shall immediately, and
without delay, inform the Authority of such fact, and if the Authority is
satisfied that such tag was lost, the Authority shall issue a replacement
tag on the payment of a fee, if applicable, as prescribed  in  the Third
Schedule.

Lost or damaged 
driver’s tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

(2)

In  the  event  that  the  driver’s  tag  becomes  discoloured,
disfigured or torn, the driver shall immediately return such tag to the
Authority  and  the  Authority  shall  issue  a  replacement  tag  free  of
charge:

Provided that the holder of the driver’s tag shall be bound
to  make  payment  to  the  Authority  of  the  fee  prescribed  in  the  Third
Schedule for the fourth and any subsequent replacement of a driver’s

42

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

tag made within the tag’s validity period.

(3)

A driver shall return the tag immediately to the Authority
upon  its  revocation  or  suspension  or  expiration,  and  the  Authority
shall give due receipt for the tag so returned.

130H. (1)
the following grounds:

A  driver’s  tag  may  be  suspended  or  revoked  on

(a) where the holder has supplied incorrect information to

the Authority; or

(b) where the holder has committed serious infringements

of these regulations.

(2)

The  Authority  shall  revoke  a  driver’s  tag  where  the

holder no longer satisfies the good repute and conduct requirement.

(3)

A  suspension  or  revocation  in  terms  of  this  regulation
shall be affected by the Authority of its own motion or by order of a
court of criminal jurisdiction:

Provided that where the Authority intends to suspend or
revoke  a  driver’s  tag  of  its  own  motion,  it  shall  give  the  tag  holder
concerned a notice in writing setting out the reasons for its intention to
do so. Every notice given shall state that the tag holder concerned may,
within ten days from service thereof, make representations in writing
to the Authority giving reasons why the tag should not be suspended or
revoked and the Authority shall consider any representations so made
before arriving at a final decision. The Authority shall notify in writing
its final decision to the tag holder concerned. The tag holder concerned
shall have the right to appeal to the Tribunal against the decision of the
Authority to suspend or revoke the driver’s tag within thirty days from
notification of the Authority’s decision:

Provided  further  that  a  decision  of  the  Authority  to
suspend or revoke a driver’s tag shall not become operative until the
expiration  of  the  period  within  which  an  appeal  may  be  made  under
this  regulation  and,  if  an  appeal  is  made  within  such  period,  the
decision  shall  become  operative  on  the  date  of  the  decision  of  the
Tribunal  dismissing  the  appeal  or  the  date  on  which  the  appeal  is
abandoned.

131. Deleted by L.N. 252 of 2011.

Suspension or 
revocation of 
driver’s tag.
Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

Driver’s licence 
and tag.
Amended by:
L.N. 149 of 1995;
L.N. 85 of 1999.
Substituted by:
L.N. 44 of 2006.
Amended by:
L.N. 408 of 2007;
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 101 of 2011.

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

43

Examinations. 
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999;
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Registration of 
hires.
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999.

General 
provisions.
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999;
L.N. 158 of 2009;
L.N. 252 of 2011.

132. All  motor  vehicles  for  hire,  self-drive  cars,  and  all  motor
cycles for hire shall be examined annually and at other times as
provided in regulation 120.

133. The owner or keeper of a public garage is required to keep
a register giving certain particulars of the hiring of his motor
vehicles under regulation 62.

134. (a) No passenger shall refuse to pay his fare to the driver
of a motor vehicle for hire at the end of a trip, or when
demanded thereafter.

(b) The  driver  of  any  motor  vehicle  for  hire  shall  be  in
possession of a copy of the official tariff of fares and
of  these  Regulations.  He  shall  produce  the  same
whenever requested to do so by the Police or by any
officer of the Authority or by any passenger.

(c) Every  motor  vehicle  for  hire  and  self-drive  motor
vehicle shall be kept constantly clean and maintained
in good order and state of repair.

(d) No  motor  vehicle  for  hire  or  self-drive  motor  vehicle
shall  carry  petrol  or  other  inflammable  liquid  or
material except in the tank of the vehicle.

(e) No passenger and/or driver may smoke while he is in a
motor vehicle for hire which is a public service garage
van.

(f) Any  motor  vehicle  for  hire  which  is  a  public  service
garage van shall display in a prominent place inside the
vehicle and which is clearly visible to all passengers, a
no smoking sign.

135. The licensee of a self-drive motor vehicle shall see that no
such  motor  vehicle  is  given  on  hire  unless  there  is  displayed
conspicuously in the interior of such motor vehicle a copy of the
Tariff of Fares.

Display of tariff of 
fares.
Amended by:
L.N. 85 of 1999.

PART VIII

(This Part - regulations 136 to 143 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 146 of 2003).

PART IX

(This Part - regulations 144 to 148 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 252 of 2011).

PART X

(This Part - regulations 149 to 158 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 252 of 2011).

PART XI

(This Part - regulations 159 to 181 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 252 of 2011).

Substituted by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Substituted by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Substituted by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

44

[S.L.65.11

MOTOR VEHICLES

Substituted by:
L.N. 158 of 2009.

PART XII

(This Part - regulations 182 to 230 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 252 of 2011).

PART XIII

(This Part - regulations 231 to 244 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 101 of 2011).

PART XIV

(This Part - regulations 244 to 252 - has been revoked by Legal

Notice 101 of 2011).

PART XV

(Regulations 253 to 269 (both included) were revoked by Legal

Notice 162 of 2003).

PART XVI 

(This Part - regulation 270 - has been revoked by Legal Notice

101 of 2011).

MOTOR VEHICLES

[S.L.65.11

45

FIRST SCHEDULE
Regulation 211

Amended by:
L.N. 109 of 1995;
L.N. 234 of 1997;
L.N. 158 of 2009.

Motor Route Buses Routes and Colours

Deleted by L.N. 252 of 2011.

SECOND SCHEDULE
(Regulation 211)

Added by:
L.N. 234 of 1997.

*Collisions between motor vehicles where the impact takes place between the
front of a vehicle and that part which is situated between the back wheels of another
vehicle.

THIRD SCHEDULE
FEES
(Regulation 62B, 130C and 130G)

Added by:
L.N. 123 of 2018.

Part 1
Application fee for public service garage licence
Part 2
Application for the granting and renewal of driver’s tag
Replacement of lost driver’s tag

€20

€12
€12

 
