MICROMOBILITY

[S.L.65.32

1

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION 65.32

MICROMOBILITY REGULATIONS

27th December, 2019

LEGAL  NOTICE  352  of  2019,  as  amended  by  Legal  Notice  275  of 
2023.

1.
Regulations. 

The  title  of  these  regulations  is  the  Micromobility 

Citation.

2.

In 

these  regulations,  unless 

the  context  otherwise 

requires - 

Interpretation.
Amended by:
L.N. 275 of 2023.

''Authority''  means  the  Authority  for  Transport  in  Malta 

Cap. 499.

established by the Authority for Transport in Malta Act; 

''bypass''  means  a  main  road  built  to  avoid  a  town  or  a 

village or other congested area;

''cyclepath'' means, for the purpose of these regulations, a 
path  along  a  road  or  pavement  which  has  been  reserved  and 
marked for the exclusive use of bicycles; 

''electric kick scooter'' or ''e-kickscooter'' means a stand-
up  device  that  has  a  handlebar,  a  deck  and  small  hard  wheels 
powered by an electric motor and which also allows for human 
propulsion; 

''footpath'' means, for the purpose of these regulations, a 

path for pedestrians alongside, and a little higher than a road;

"pedestrian zone" means an area:

(a)

which  has  been 

laid  out 

to 

improve 

amenities for pedestrians; and

(b)

to which the entry of vehicles is prohibited 

or restricted;

''promenade''  means  a  public  area  set  aside  as  a 

pedestrian walk;

"road" means any road, street, lane, square, or other place 
of public thoroughfare, and it includes any bridge over which, 
and any tunnel through which, a road passes;

"Tribunal"  means  the  Administrative  Review  Tribunal 

established by article 5 of the Administrative Justice Act; 


Cap. 490.

''tunnel'' means, for the purpose of these regulations, any 

roofed road or passage forming part of the road network.

         
 
2

[ S.L. 65.32

MICROMOBILITY

Part I
REGISTRATION, LICENSING AND INSURANCE 

Registration and 
licensing.
Amended by:
L.N. 275 of 2023.

3.

(1) 
licensed with the Authority. 

Electric  kick  scooters  shall  be  registered  and 

(2)

The Authority shall not register any electric kick scooter 

unless:

(a)

the  applicant  produces,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
Authority,  a  certificate  issued  by  the  manufacturer,  or,  where 
such  a  certificate  cannot  be  produced,  a  report  signed  by  a 
warranted  engineer,  stating  that  the  said  electric  kick  scooter 
has  been  manufactured  or  calibrated  in  such  a  manner  that  it 
cannot achieve a speed in excess of 20km/h; and 

(b)

the electric kick scooter is in conformity with the 

requirements established in these regulations. 

(3)

No person shall ride or drive on a road an e-kickscooter

which is not registered and licensed with the Authority.

(4)

Such  registration  mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall 
be  made  against  the  payment  of  a  ten  euro  (€10)  administration  fee 
payable to the Authority.

(5)

A registration number in the form of a plate or sticker, as 
the  Authority  may  deem  fit  according  to  the  circumstances  of  each 
case, shall be affixed in a conspicuous position on the e-kickscooter as 
shall be instructed by the Authority. 

(6)

The  annual  licence  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  hologram 
sticker  and  shall  also  be  affixed  in  a  conspicuous  position  on  the  e-
kickscooter as shall be instructed by the Authority.

(7)

No  annual  circulation  fee  shall  be  payable  for  e-

kickscooters.

Insurance.


Cap. 104.

4.

No electric kick scooter may be used on the road in Malta 
unless it is covered by a third-party risks insurance in compliance with 
the  requirements  of  the  Motor  Vehicle  Insurance  (Third-Party  Risks) 
Ordinance.

Driving licence. 

5.

(1)

No person shall drive or permit any other person 

to drive an e-kickscooter on the road in Malta unless that person –

(a)

has reached the age of sixteen years; and 


S.L. 65.18.

(b)

is  in  possession  of  a  valid  driving  licence 
(Category  A,  AM  or  B)  issued  in  conformity  with  the  Motor 
Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations.

(2)

Every person riding an e-kickscooter on the road shall be 

MICROMOBILITY

[S.L.65.32

3

obliged to carry his driving licence and, when so requested, to produce 
the  same  to  the  Police  or  any  other  enforcement  officer  having  the 
power in terms of law to request the production of a driving licence. 

Part II
USAGE 

6.

Any  person  who  rides  an  e-kickscooter  on  a  road  shall 
observe and abide by all traffic regulations, including those regulating 
pedestrian crossings and traffic lights.

Observance of 
traffic regulations. 

7.

(1)

Electric kick scooters may be driven on footpaths, 
promenades,  shared  footpaths,  cyclepaths  and  pedestrian  zones  on 
condition  that  the  speed  limit  established  in  regulation  (9)(b)  is 
observed. 

Driving on 
footpaths etc.

(2)

Persons driving an e-kickscooter on any footpath, shared 
footpath,  promenade  or  pedestrian  zone  shall  be  obliged  to  exert  the 
utmost attention whilst driving and to give precedence to pedestrians 
at all times. 

(3)

Persons  driving  an  e-kickscooter  on  any  cyclepath  or 
shared  cyclepath  shall  be  obliged  not  to  hinder  or  obstruct  the  free 
flow of cycle traffic. 

8.
scooter:

It shall be an offence for a person to drive an electric kick 

Prohibited zones. 

(a) 

in any part of the arterial or distributor roads which 
are included in a list which shall be published by the Authority 
from time to time in the Gazette except such parts of such roads 
forming part of the Safe Cycle Route Network established by the 
Authority  from  time  to  time  by  means  of  a  publication  in  the 
Gazette; 

(b)

in any tunnel or underpass;

(c)

in  any  other  road  or  public  space,  as  may  be 
designated by the Authority from time to time and indicated by 
appropriate road signage, where the use of e-kickscooters shall 
be prohibited.

9.

All persons driving electric kick scooters shall be obliged 

Speed limits

to observe the following speed limits:

(a)

a  maximum  speed  of  20km/h  when  driving  on 

roads; 

(b)

a  maximum  speed  of  10km/h  when  driving  on 
footpaths,  promenades,  pedestrian  zones  and  shared  footpaths 
and cyclepaths. 

         
 
4

[ S.L. 65.32

MICROMOBILITY

No carriage of 
persons.

Holding on to other 
vehicles. 

No towing of 
objects. 

Keeping to the left 
of the road.

10.

It shall be an offence for more than one person to ride, or 

be carried on, an e-kickscooter. 

 11.

It shall be an offence for a person on an e-kickscooter to 
hold  on  to  any  other  vehicle  which  is  in  motion  or  hold  on  to  any 
person or thing on, in or attached to any such vehicle.

12.

It shall be an offence to tow any cart, trailer or any other 

object whilst riding an e-kickscooter. 

13.

(1)  When riding an e-kickscooter on a road, a person 
shall  keep  to the  nearside  left  of  the  road as  much as possible in  the 
direction  of  traffic  except  on  the  approach  to  an  intersection  or  a 
roundabout or when overtaking other traffic. 

(2)

Persons riding e-kickscooters shall travel in a single file, 
except when effecting a manoeuvre of overtaking, and not next to each 
other.

Offence to ride 
freehand. 

14.

It  shall  be  an  offence  for  any  person  to  ride  an  e-

kickscooter freehand.

Prohibition to 
make use of mobile 
phones.

15.

It shall be an offence to make use of, or to hold in one’s 
hands,  a  mobile  phone  or  any  other  object  whilst  riding  an  e-
kickscooter. 

Prohibition to 
make use of 
headphones and 
similar equipment. 

16.

It  shall  be  an  offence  to  make  use  of  headphones, 
earphones or any other system or gadget which may hinder or impede 
hearing whilst riding an e-kickscooter. 

E-kickscooters not 
equipped with 
directioal 
equipment.

17. Where an e-kickscooter is not equipped with directional 
indicators,  the  person  riding  such  e-kickscooter  shall  be  obliged  to 
indicate  a  change  of  direction  with  his  hand  in  a  clear  and  timely 
manner in order to give other road users adequate prior notice of his 
intention to change direction. 

Contraflow.

18.

It shall be an offence to drive an e-kickscooter against the 
direction  of  traffic  unless  there  is  a  road  sign  and  marking  which 
indicates that driving against the direction of traffic is permitted. 

Part III
EQUIPMENT 

Head lamp and tail 
lamp requirement.

19.

Electrick  kick  scooters  to  be  used  on  the  road  are 
required  to  be  equipped  with  a  head  lamp  and  a  tail  lamp  which  are 
clearly visible to other road-users and pedestrians. 

High visibility 
vest.

20.

Any  person  riding  an  e-kickscooter  on  a  road  between 
sunset and sunrise shall be obliged to wear a high visibility vest at all 
times. 

MICROMOBILITY

[S.L.65.32

5

Part IV
PARKING

21.

Electric kick scooters may be parked on pavements and 
promenades or on footpaths and in pedestrian zones but not in such a 
manner  as  to  obstruct  the  free  flow  of  pedestrian  traffic  or  in  such  a 
manner as to restrict or hinder the use thereof by persons with mobility 
impairment or to impede the access to such pavements, promenades or 
footpaths.

Parking on 
pavements etc. 

22.

(1)  Wherever  available,  e-kickscooters  are  to  be 
parked  in  such  parking  infrastructures,  such  as  racks,  which  may  be 
provided or in such parking spaces which are specifically designated 
and marked for such purpose. 

Parking in 
designated parking 
spaces. 

(2)

In  such  roads  where  there  are  no  spaces  specifically 
designated  and  marked  for  such  purpose,  e-kickscooters  may  be 
parked on the road in a perpendicular position to the pavement but not 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  occupy  a  parking  space  which  is  specifically 
designated and marked for the parking of other types of vehicles. 

(1)

23.

Any e-kickscooter parked in any manner which is 
in breach of regulations 21 or 22 shall be subject to a fine for illegal 
parking or obstruction, depending on the circumstances of the case. 

Illegal parking of 
e-kickscooters.

(2) Where an e-kickscooter is parked in such a manner as to 
impede  the  free  flow  of  pedestrian  or  vehicular  traffic  or  in  such  a 
manner as to occupy a parking space which is specifically designated 
and  marked  for  the  parking  of  other  types  of  vehicles,  such  e-
kickscooter  may  be  removed  from  the  road  in  accordance  with  the 
Clamping and Removal of Motor Vehicles and Encumbering Objects 
Regulations. 









S.L. 65.13.

Part V
E-KICKSCOOTER SHARING SERVICES

24.

These Regulations have been repealed by Legal 275 of 2023. 

Licence for 
operators.

25.

26.

These Regulations have been repealed by Legal 275 of 2023.

Sharing services.

These Regulations have been repealed by Legal 275 of 2023. 

Right of appeal.

Part VI
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

(1)

27.

Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of 
regulation 3(3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, 
be liable to a fine (multa) of five hundred euro (€500).

Offences and 
penalties.
Amended by:
L.N. 275 of 2023.

(2)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 

4 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable:

(a)

in the case of a first offence, to a fine (multa) of 

         
 
6

[ S.L. 65.32

MICROMOBILITY

not less than two thousand and three hundred and twenty-nine 
euro and thirty-seven cents (€2,329.37) but not exceeding four 
thousand and six hundred and fifty-eight euro and seventy-five 
cents (€4,658.75) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
three months, or to both such fine and imprisonment;

(b)

in the case of a second offence, to a fine (multa) of 
not less than four thousand and six hundred and fifty-eight euro 
and  seventy-five  cents  (€4,658.75)  but  not  exceeding  five 
thousand  and  eight  hundred  and  twenty-three  euro  and  forty-
three  cents  (€5,823.43)  or  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not 
exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment;

(c)

in  the  case  of  a  third  or  subsequent  offence,  to  a 
fine  (multa)  of  not  less  than  five  thousand  and  eight  hundred 
and twenty-three euro and forty-three cents (€5,823.43) but not 
exceeding six thousand and nine hundred and eighty-eight euro 
and twelve cents (€6,988.12) or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding one year, or to both such fine and imprisonment, and 

(i)

where the offence consists in the use of an 
e-kickscooter on a road by a person who is the owner of 
the e-kickscooter or by a member of his family or other 
person registered under the same address as the owner of 
the  e-kickscooter,  the  court  shall,  in  addition  to  the 
punishments  laid  down  in  this  sub-paragraph,  order  the 
forfeiture of the e-kickscooter;

(ii)

where 

the  offence,  as  aforesaid, 

is 
committed  by  any  other  person,  the  court  shall,  in 
addition  to  the  punishments  laid  down  in  this  sub-
paragraph, impose a further fine (multa) equivalent to the 
value of the e-kickscooter.

(2A) Any person convicted of an offence under this regulation 
shall (unless the court for special reasons thinks fit to order otherwise 
and without prejudice to the power of the court to order a longer period 
of disqualification) be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving 
licence for a period of twelve months from the date of the conviction: 

Provided  that  if  the  execution  of  the  judgment  ordering 
the conviction is stayed in view of the declared intention of the person 
convicted  to  enter  an  appeal  against  such  judgment,  the  period  of 
disqualification shall commence to run –

(a)

if  it  is  confirmed  or  reduced  by  the  judgment  of 

the Court of Criminal Appeal, from the date of such judgment;

(b)

if  an application  of  appeal  is not  filed within  the 
time established by law, from the day next following the day on 
which such time expires;

MICROMOBILITY

[S.L.65.32

7

(c)

if  the  appeal  is  withdrawn  by  note,  from  the  day 
when such note is filed in the court or, if the appeal is otherwise 
abandoned  after  the  filing  of  the  application  of  appeal,  from 
such day as the Court of Criminal Appeal shall, on application 
of the Commissioner of Police or of the Authority for Transport 
in Malta, establish.

(2B) The provisions of article 21 of the Criminal Code and of 
the Probation Act, shall not apply in respect of any offence against the 
provisions of this regulation.

Cap. 9.
Cap. 446.

(2C) Notwithstanding any enactment prescribing a time within 
which proceedings may be brought before any court, proceedings for 
an offence under this sub-regulation may be brought – 

(a)

within a period of six months from the date of the 

commission of the alleged offence; or 

(b)

within  a  period  which  exceeds  neither  three 
months from the date on which it came to the knowledge of the 
prosecution  that  the  offence  had  been  committed  or  one  year 
from the date of the offence, whichever period is the longer.

(3)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
5(1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine  (multa)  not  exceeding  one  thousand  and  two  hundred  euro 
(€1,200)  or  to  imprisonment  not  exceeding  one  year  and  the  court 
shall, in addition to the punishment established in this sub-regulation, 
disqualify the offender from holding or obtaining a driving licence, in 
the case of a first conviction for a period of not less than three months, 
and in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, for a period of 
not  less  than  one  year  and  the  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (2A)  shall 
apply mutatis mutandis. 

(4)

Any  person  who  makes  use  of  a  registration  plate  or 
sticker  on  an  e-kickscooter  other  than  that  allotted  by  the  Authority 
shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine 
(multa) not exceeding one thousand and two hundred euro (€1,200) or 
to  imprisonment  not  exceeding  six  months,  or  to  both  such  fine  and 
imprisonment.

(5)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
8(a)  or  (c)  shall  be  guilty  of  an  offence  and  shall,  on  conviction,  be 
liable to a fine (multa) of two hundred euro (€200).

(6)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
8(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine (multa) of five hundred euro (€500).

(7)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 

9 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable - 

         
 
8

[ S.L. 65.32

MICROMOBILITY




S.L. 65.18.




S.L. 65.18.

(a)

to  a  fine  (ammenda)  of  thirty-four  euro  and 
ninety-four  cents  (€34.94)  and  the  imposition  of  three  penalty 
points in terms of regulation 40 and the Sixth Schedule of the 
Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations if the excessive 
speed is up to 5 kilometers per hour over the maximum speed 
limit established in regulation 9; and 

(b)

to a fine (ammenda) of sixty-nine euro and eighty-
eight cents (€69.88) and the imposition of six penalty points in 
terms  of  regulation  40  and  the  Sixth  Schedule  of  the  Motor 
Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations if the excessive speed 
is  more  than  5  kilometers  per  hour  over  the  maximum  speed 
limit established in regulation 9.

(8)

Any  person  who  contravenes 

the  provisions  of 
regulations 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, 
on conviction, be liable to a fine (ammenda) of not less than fifty euro 
(€50) but not exceeding one hundred euro (€100).

(9)

Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
15 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine (ammenda) of two hundred euro (€200).

(10) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
16 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine (ammenda) of three hundred euro (€300).

(11) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation
17, 18, or 19 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be 
liable to a fine (ammenda) of one hundred euro (€100). 

(12) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
20 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine (multa) of two hundred euro (€200). 

(13)* Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
24(3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to 
a  fine  (multa)  of  not  less  than  two  thousand  euro  (€2,000)  but  not 
exceeding ten thousand euro (€10,000). 

(14)†  Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 
25 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a 
fine  (multa)  of  not  less  than  five  hundred  euro  (€500)  but  not 
exceeding two thousand euro (€2,000).

(1)

28.

Unless  specifically  regulated  in  Part  VI,  the 
commission of any offence in violation of any traffic regulation whilst 
using  or  driving  an  electric  kick  scooter  shall  carry  with  it  the  same 

* Sub-regulation (13) has ceased to be in force on 1st April, 2024. Vide regulation 
1(2)(a) of Legal Notice 275 of 2023.
† Sub-regulation (14) has ceased to be in force on 1st April, 2024. Vide regulation 
1(2)(a) of Legal Notice 275 of 2023.

MICROMOBILITY

[S.L.65.32

9

penalties and consequences applicable to the commission of the same 
offence whilst using or driving a motor vehicle. 

(2)

The  provisions  of  regulation  40  and  the  Sixth  Schedule 
of the Motor Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations and of articles 
15A to 15I of the Traffic Regulation Ordinance shall also apply to the 
use of electric kick scooters in the same way as they apply to the use of 
motor vehicles, mutatis mutandis. 



S.L. 65.18.

Cap. 65.

         
 
